---

date: 2005-02-16
slug: |
  linux-world-expo-bound
tags:
 - english
 - linux world expo
title: Linux World Expo Bound
---

So here I am, counting the minutes until I get the hell out of work and
head down to Laguardia Airport where I'll be boarding my plane to
Boston. My friend [Vinny](http://blog.supertoadman.com) is picking me up
for what seems to be a great weekend of geekness. Tomorrow we're going
to check out the exhibition floor at this year's [Linux World
Expo](http://www.linuxworldexpo.com/live/12/events/12BOS05A), Boston
Edition. I'm very excited about this for I will be there with my good
friend... Have you ever been to some type of event (it could be
softball) that you really enjoy but in the company of someone who
doesn't really like it and only accompanied you after putting up with
weeks of you begging him/her to go with you? You know when someone in
your team scores a hat-trick and when you look for that someone to high
five , he/she is almost falling asleep with boredom? Well, that is NOT
going to happen to me this time around, for Vinny and I dig almost the
same things. I'm definitely looking forward to checking out the new
companies and mingling with the Debian, Gentoo, and Gnome hackers.
Hopefully they'll also have some freebies like they did back in the very
first LWE in NYC. Someone made me promise him I'd bring a Red Hat,
err... hat back with me. Also, now that I have an account with
[Flickr](http://www.flickr.com), it will be easy to upload the pictures
I'm sure I'll be taking as I walk through the booths. Friday I'm having
lunch with [Miguel de
Icaza](http://primates.ximian.com/~miguel/activity-log.php)!!! Let me
say that again: **I'm having lunch with Miguel de Icaza!!!** Hahaha!!!
He was awsomely cool enough to accept my self-invitation to meet him and
get a tour of his office in Cambridge! It should be a very cool
experience! Saturday nothing planned... Most likely do some hacking with
[Mono](http://www.mono-project.com/about/index.html) and do some serious
coffee drinking at the local Barnes and Nobble. Sunday up early and
drive to Microsoft's HQ in Waltham for their day-long mini boot camp.
Finally, I fly back home Sunday evening where I'm sure I'll be greeted
by my lovely wife and daughter!
