---

date: 2005-02-18
slug: |
  talking-to-the-mono-king
tags:
 - english
 - mono
 - miguel de icaza
 - novell
 - ximian
 - monodevelop
 - evolution
title: Talking To The Mono King
---

This last Friday was the second day of my trip to Boston. The agenda was
very simple and yet had all the ingredients to an unforgetable day.
Having swapped a few emails with Miguel De Icaza where I convinced him
to meet me and give me a tour of Ximian's office in Cambridge, we had
finally settled I'd meet him during his lunch break. My friend Vinny and
I left his house around 11am figuring it would take us about 30-40
minutes to get there but we were not counting on getting lost on the
way. Hehehehe... So around 12:25 we arrived at 8 Cambridge Center and
told the doorwoman that we were supposed to meet Miguel. What followed
next were a series of phone calls between the doorwoman, someone from
Novell, and us where Viiny and I were drilled interrogatory-like by the
Novell person about our intentions with this meeting. Now, I understand
that it may have sounded very weird to her when we pretty much stated
that we were "enthusiasts that had swapped emails with Miguel and had
arranged for a agenda-less meeting during lunch." "What company do you
work for," she asked. "We're not here representing a company," we
replied reciting the "we're enthusiasts" mantra again. After some 15-20
frustrating minutes during which I felt like turning around and
forgetting about the whole thing, we were finally allowed to go up to
the 5th floor.

By then I was feeling pretty bad about the whole thing and it felt now
that we were bothering people. We did go up to the 5th floor
nevertheless only to wait another 10 minutes in front of the
Ximian-logoed door. Eventually a young woman opened the door and took us
to a lounge where a lot of the Gnome/Mono hackers were having a pizza
party. She had us wait by the fuzzball table while she approached Miguel
to let him know his visitors were there. What a Kodak moment that was
when I say the look on Miguel's face. He looked completely dumbfound and
seemed to have completely forgotten about our agreement. Vinny and I
wanted to jump out of the window but patiently sat down and waited for
another 10 minutes while Miguel talked to someone who looked to be a big
cheese from Novell. During those looong 10 minutes I looked around and
recognized several hackers including [Michael
Meeks](http://www.gnome.org/~michael/) and [Nat
Friedman](http://nat.org/). What a cool bunch they were hanging out in
the lounge, munching down their pizza and chugging down their colas. I
confess that at that moment I became extremelly depressed with my
current job and hoped nobody would ask me about it so I wouldn't have to
remember it.

Finally we were approached by Miguel and time stood still for what it
seemed a long time. We introduced ourselves and talked about several
different subjects, mostly involving Mono and Microsoft. He gave us the
inside scoop of where Mono is headed for the next year or so and also
about the new additions to [MonoDevelop](http://www.monodevelop.com/) to
support the newly added Windows.Forms namespace. He also showed genuine
interest in our suggestion of a free Mono code boot camp event and was
only concerned if people would actually show up. I also suggested they
create a Live CD with
[Mono](http://www.mono-project.com/about/index.html) and MonoDevelop
included as part of the default boot. In the end he gave us both a cool
[Evolution](http://www.novell.com/products/desktop/features/evolution.html)
t-shirt and told us he had to do talk to someone about a bug that
something during our conversation reminded him of.

Overall I'm glad I stuck to the whole thing despite my initial feelings
that we were disturbing him.
