---

date: 2005-02-22
slug: |
  sharp-turns
tags:
 - english
title: Sharp Turns
---

Today was my first day back to work since last Wednesday when I flew to
Boston to attend Linux World Expo. It started out just like any other
day: woke up early, drove daughter to daycare, crawled through traffic
on the FDR Drive, parked across the street and coughed up the \$11 daily
rate, signed in at 8:25am, walked into my cubicle, said hello to my
co-worker... Only there was no reply... there was nobody sitting
there... in fact, the space previously taken by my Russian friend was
empty! "He quit?!?!?!?" I thought. Immediately, as if sensing my
disorientation someone from the cubicle "next door" approached me and
told me that "they" had moved my friend so as to make room for the new
consultant that is starting today. I haven't been given the facts yet
and what I know right now is mostly based on rumors circulating the
office. There's a great possiblity that the new consultant (a woman from
India) was hired to be my direct manager, adding yet one more layer to
the current hierarchy.

The truth is I don't really know much since communication doesn't seem
to be the norm around here and I expect to learn more as the days go on.
The only thing I do know is that starting today I am no longer in charge
of supporting the ASP.NET application I was hired to do as far as
maintaining and implementing it, and am now solely responsible for
supporting the Crystal Reports part of it. Two major blows in the same
day and the week is only 2 days into it. I'd be lying if I said I'm not
disappointed with this specially considering that I was originally hired
as a VB.NET programmer. I also hate the fact that they moved my friend.
He doesn't know this but he's responsible for cheering me up on many
occasions when the going got rough around here. We just planly had a lot
of fun together and I feel that some people even envyed our relationship
for I don't recall seeing anyone around here who get along so well.

He is now 2 cubicles (is this the unit of measurement for office
environment?) down the aisle and as a "parting gift" he gave me a 6x8
picture of Kournikova wearing a really tiny red skirt that shows her
white panties... I guess I'll survive...
