---

date: 2005-02-23
slug: |
  enemy-territory-night
tags:
 - english
title: Enemy Territory Night
---

[![image0](http://photos5.flickr.com/5302784_a102a7eedb_m.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/25563799@N00/5302784/)

[Enemy Territory
Night](http://www.flickr.com/photos/25563799@N00/5302784/) Originally
uploaded by [omaciel](http://www.flickr.com/people/25563799@N00/).

Every Wednesday night has been "Enemy Territory Night" for Vinny and I
for quite some time now. I'm a confessed
[E.T.](http://www.enemy-territory.com) addict and have been known for
taking just any free second I can squeeze out of my tight daily agenda
just so I can play a little bit. Tonight is the only time during the
week when I can forego my house chores so I can solely concentrate on
the game. I even bought a cool headphone so that I wouldn't bother my
wife and daughter (but the main reason why I really bought it is so I
can hear the sneaky covert-ops bastards trying to knife me from behind).
I usually play as an engineer and try to build all the objectives so my
team can win the game but I do sometimes roll up my cyber sleeves and
make use of the MG42 every now and then. I have tried other games (I
also own MoH and CoD) but the WWII motif is what brings me back to E.T.,
to the desperation of Vinny who has been trying to get me to play
something else for quite some time now. He did get me to try WoW and I
was addicted to it from the start but once my 10-day trial expired I
chose not to buy my own license due to my very restrict schedule.
However, seeing him play the game on his brand-spanking-new 19" monitor
has started an itch that "tells me" to buy one and get my own copy of
Wow! Time will tell...
