---

date: 2005-02-28
slug: |
  tar-heel-wanna-be
tags:
 - tar heel
 - life
 - unc
title: Tar Heel Wanna Be
---

This Wednesday I embark on what may be the most important trip of my
life: I'll be visiting and interviewing with the chairs of several
different departments at the [North Carolina
Univertsity](http://www.unc.edu/) with the objective of gathering
information for my possible come back to the academic world. It's been
almost 8 years since I graduated from [Pace
University](http://www.pace.edu) and my plans of earning a PhD/MD
diploma have taken a major detour. From lab technician at [BD
Pharmaceuticals](http://bd.com/), BioInformatics Programmer at Synaptics
Pharmaceutical (now part of [Lundbeck](http://www.lundbeck.com)
Pharmaceuticals), and now VB.NET Programmer for the [School Construction
Authority of NYC](http://www.nycsca.org), I have often felt like a fish
out of the water. Computer programming has been a hobby of mine since I
was given a Sinclair ZX when I was 9 but being a scientist is what
really gets my blood flowing. I'm hoping that somewhere along this trip
something will click and help me get back in track with my dream of
doing something that will help those people all around the world who
unfortunately were born with some type of disability and cannot fully
enjoy a "normal" life. I strongly believe that everyone is *here* for a
reason and I want to do my best so that the meaning of my being here is
to make someone else's life better! Hopefully I will be able to acchieve
my goal as a Tar Heel!
