---

date: 2005-03-04
slug: |
  tar-heel-dreaming
tags:
 - tar heel
 - life
 - unc
title: Tar Heel Dreaming
---

Arrived here in North Carolina last night at the Raleigh-Durham airport.
My younger sister was waiting for me and as soon as we picked up my
luggage we headed to her apartment in Chapel Hill. Woke up early today
and went to my first (and only) meeting with the chair of the School of
Information and Library Science at [UNC](http://www.unc.edu). My sister
had set up the meeting for me and I must admit I wasn't too sure if I
wanted to spend the time to talk to someone from a department that had
the word "library" in it. Turns out the "information" part plays a major
role in their program, albeit you could still pursue a career in the
library science field if you want to. After asking the standard
questions about the program, deadlines, and financial aid I was advised
to take a few minutes and speak to one of the professors involved in the
program who was very involved with bioinformatics and genomics. The
10-minute meeting was *ok* but I felt that he wasn't very interested in
talking to me and was just trying to get me to leave. I quickly gave him
a rundown of my interests and as he gave me some information a name came
up: [Catherine Blake](http://www.ils.unc.edu/%7Ecablake/). I figured I'd
spend another 10 minutes and get some feedback from her and hope she'd
be a bit more social. Man, what a difference!!! She was absolutely
amazing, taking the time to not only answer my questions but also
extract some information from me so she could point me to the right
direction. She seemed to be just as passionate about her work
(apparently she's huge in text mining and medical informatics) and we
ended up talking for at least a great 30 minutes. Tomorrow I have 3 more
meetings scheduled with different folks from the computer science and
genetics departments but I must tell you; she has definitely tipped the
scale in favor of her department. About 5 minutes after we left her
office, as my sister and I are walking toward where my sister works,
Catherine caught up with us to give us some more incite about the
financial aid process that she thought would be beneficial to me. Icing
in the cake! After a huge lunch at the local hang-out place we went back
home and spent the rest of the day talking and fixing her laptop. Around
7pm we went to see "Sideways" which definitely deserves a post of its
own. Great movie!!!
