---

date: 2005-03-07
slug: |
  the-saga-continues
tags:
 - english
 - unc
 - life
title: The Saga Continues
---

My personal quest of gathering as much information as possible on the
requirements to enroll into a PhD program at the [University of North
Carolina](http://www.unc.edu) at Chapel Hill continued last Friday. I
was up and early for my appointments at the Department of Computer
Science considering I went to sleep really late the previous night. It
was my sister's birthday so I took her out to the movies and a late
dinner. I was supposed to meet a professor and then the chair of the
department but due to some slight technical problem (my sister had set
up the meetings for 9:30 & 10am but told me 10 & 11am), I ended up
talking to the chair first. He had a pretty impressive office and I
couldn't help but admire all the computer books that adorned the many
bookshelves around the room. From the very start he told me how
competitive the administration process was and all the ubber
requirements needed to be considered for their PhD program. Apparently
they have the second best computer graphics program in the nation and
competition is fierce. We spent about 20 minutes where I was presented
with layer upon layer of "possible" obstacles that would make my
application "less desirable" than applications from undergrads with a
Computer Science degree/background. Also, my 7-8 years of working
experience don't really count much unless I had done some research work.
One way I could improve my chances would be to move to Chapel Hill at
least 1 year before applying for their PhD program and take some
undergrad classes to give me the necessary background I lack, but that
idea is pretty much out of question when you have a small family that
depends on you. In case you're wondering what the requirements are: 90+
percentile of your general GRE scores and GPA of 3.5+. Feeling the
weight of all the mentioned obstacles on my way and hating myself for
not continuing my education when I had a better shot at it, I shook his
hand and walked to my other appointment. To my surprise the professor
was much, much upbeat then the chair (and I guess he has to be tough...
he's the chair) and the entire 30 minute meeting went really well. I
mean, the obstacles are there but he sort of put a better spin on the
"you can do anything you want if you work hard enough" idea... After
that I decided to buy an UNC baseball hat and sit outside an on-campus
coffee house just outside the bookstore for some deserved dose of
caffeine and morphine, where I also had the opportunity to observe all
the students running to and from their classes. I had forgotten how it
felt to be in school, with the constant schedules and homeworks and
different people populating every minute of your day. Nearby some girls
were participating on some kind of cheering contest... The weather
helped too and it felt like one of those early Spring days. Around
1:30pm I left for my last meeting of the day at the Department of
Genetics. Got lost for a while driving through the huge campus thanks to
my sister's driving instincts (thanks Magellan) but managed to make
there on time and in one piece. Once again the meeting was "hosted" by
the chair and right away it became obvious that it would be almost that
impossible for me to enroll into the program. I was told that my lack of
actual lab experience for the last 8 years put me at the bottom of the
list of applicants, all certainly either fresh out of undergrad school
or at least with some years of hands-on experience. It wasn't the best
way to end my day and it felt as if I was annoyingly trying to find a
"loop-hole" in the administration process. However, I didn't let this
spoil my spirit and took the whole experience as something that will
give me even more desire to succeed! Took another 30 minutes to gather
some brochures about the Nurse program they offer for my wife and headed
back home. Stopped at [Mama Dips](http://mamadips.com/) for some
authentic Southern ribs and fried chicken on our way and had to be
helped off the car due to all the food I ate. Spent the remaining of the
day slowly digesting the ribs and chicken while watching 2 foreign
movies. Saturday morning after a quick shower and breakfast I was on a
plane headed back home. I now have a load of brochures and catalogs to
go through and will have to make some decisions fairly soon...
