---

date: 2005-03-10
slug: |
  open-journal-idea
tags:
 - english
 - pet project
title: Open Journal Idea
---

It has been a long time since I last blogged on my other web site [Linux
Gnubbie](http://www.linuxgnubbie.com). It was my first real "taste" of a
real blown web site and up to the day I bought the domain I had relied
on public (e.g. chock-full of banners and adds), free web site
providers. Those really sucked specially because you were pretty much at
the mercy of their regulations and forget about getting some type of
remote access to work on your files. You'd better have either Front Page
(and hope the provider supported Front Page extensions) or know how to
FTP. [Linux Gnubbie](http://www.linuxgnubbie.com) started out as my way
to give something back to the Linux and Open Source community. I'd spend
hours every day scouring the web for usefull tid-bits and add them to
the site so that Open Source enthusiasts could have a central
repositiory for information and "geek news." Some time along the way the
blog bug bit me hard and I chose to register another domain for my
personal nonsense ideas and thoughts and that is when [Journal of an
Open Sourcee](http://www.ogmaciel.com) was born. Several months into
this duo-existance I found myself struggling to support 2 sites and get
work done at my daytime job. Unfortunately [Linux
Gnubbie](http://www.linuxgnubbie.com) was the one that suffered the most
since [Journal of an Open Sourcee](http://www.ogmaciel.com) doesn't
require much time from me. I was pondering the idea of just dumping the
domain for [Linux Gnubbie](http://www.linuxgnubbie.com) but I just can't
get myself to pull the plug on it. So I had this major epiphany while
driving to work: why don't I turn the web site into a **public**
blogging site for enthusiasts as myself??? What better way to give back
than provide those who can't afford to own their own domain a place
where they can contribute to the community? I'd be the administrator for
the site obviously, "droping in" as often as possible to make sure
things are running smoothly. So there it is... Those **seriously
interested and dedicated** individuals can contact me via email (og dot
maciel at gmail dot com). Once I have a good list of authors I'll
re-build the site and create the proper accounts.

Og Maciel
