---

date: 2005-03-11
slug: |
  petri-dish-children
tags:
 - english
title: Petri Dish Children
---

My daughter is very ill. Actually, she's been ill for a few days now
with very high fever and coughing coupled with a persistent runny nose.
I had to take Wednesday off from work so I could bring her to her doctor
but it turned out to be a complete waste of time. He even performed an
on-site strep throat test to see if that was the problem but the results
were inconclusive. In the end I heard the same diagnose he had given us
in all our past trips to his office: it **could** be a throat infection
**or** an ear infection. Having gone through 3 different doctors and a
couple of trips to 2 different E.R.s during my daughter's first 3 years
I shouldn't be surprised with the diagnose... Noir should I be surprised
with the solution either. It is always the same mantra that sounds more
like a voodoo chant, repeated over and over until you can't help but go
into the hypnotic trance that seems to have taken control over all
parents in the nation. It goes a little bit like this (with voodoo drums
beating frenetically in the background): ... take
[Amoxicillin](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amoxillin)... take
[Amoxicillin](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amoxillin)... It amazes me
how U.S. doctors can prescribe **one** type of antibiotic for **every**
single type of ailment aflicting children nowadays. If you child has a
runny nose? **Amoxicillin**! Coughing? **Amoxicillin**! Ingrown hair?
**Amoxicillin**! Bad breath? **Amoxicillin**! You see, Amoxicillin is
what I call a "catch all" type of antibiotic. It is described as

> \"a **moderate-spectrum** antibiotic active against a **wide range**
> of Gram-positive, and a **limited range** of Gram-negative organisms."

Please note the underlined words for it is the source of my "beef" with
this general practice. When you want to clip your toe nails, you don't
choose a Hedge Trimmer (unless you have toe nails like my friend
[Vinny](http://blog.supertoadman.com) does)! You choose the appropriate
tool that will do the job at hand, and **only** that one job! Sure a
Hedge Trimmer would do the trick but you'd snip some of your "little
piggies" along the process. My point is that by using a generic, "catch
all" antibiotic for every single time your doctors can't tell you
**precisely** what type of bacterial infection your child has, you end
up turning your child into a walking bacteria experiment. When I once
attended a class titled "DNA Recombination" while attending [Pace
University](http://www.pace.edu), one of the things we did was to
genetically engineer bacteria to become immune to certain antibiotics.
Without having to take you on a crash course of DNA recombination, this
process is achieved by slowly and methodically growing bacteria in a
petri dish and then treating them with a small concentration of an
antibiotic known to kill said bacteria. You allow them to grow (or in
this case die) for a while and the end result is that **most** bacteria
should not survive. However, a very small group will survive this
procedure. The next step is to take the "lucky" bacteria and place them
into a brand new petri dish where you have increased the concentration
of antibiotic. Repeat these steps for a few "bacterial generations,"
increasing the concentration of antibiotic for every iteration and what
you end up with is a "new" type of bacteria that has been engineered (or
has been induced to mutate) to resist antibiotic treatment. If someone
is infected with this "super" type, normal treatment would not work.
Sure you could increase the concentration of the antibiotic to a level
that would most likely dicimate the bacteria but what about its effects
on the (human) host? Yesterday my parents took my daughter to yet
another doctor, one that was close to their home. The same battery of
tests were run but with a different outcome: This time around the throat
infection was discarded but there were **signs** of a **possible** ear
infection. Guess what type of antibiotic was chosen to treat her??? ;)
By using generic, non-targetted medication to treat our illnesses we are
contributing to the birth of newer, super bacteria. The more we allow
our bodies to be used as human petri dishes, the higher the chances a
new plague-like disaster could occur in the near future.
