---

date: 2005-03-16
slug: |
  linux-meetup-march-14-2005
tags:
 - english
 - meetup
 - life
title: Linux Meetup - March 14, 2005
---

This past Monday I hosted the monthly [Northern New Jersey Linux
Meetup](http://linux.meetup.com/8/) at Panera Bread. It is the 7th
meeting I have organized ever since taken over the group back in
September 2004. I managed to get there earlier than usual and took
advantage of the extra time to write down some ideas I had for a new pet
project of mine and get some good coffee. One hour later some of the
frequent attendees arrived. One cool thing we managed to do in
relatively little time was to perform a new install on someone's laptop.
The distro of choice was [Ubuntu](http://www.ubuntulinux.org) Warty and
the entire process took less than 20 minutes. The only thing we didn't
manage to setup was the USB wireless adapter but that can be fixed once
the laptop is plugged to a network and the appropriate drivers are
installed. I only wish more people had attended the meeting to see
this... One item we discussed was the possibility of combining our
meetings with that of other Meetup groups from Northern NJ. It seems
that the turn out for the Slashdot, MySQL, and PHP groups is not that
great and we thought that by adding 1 or 2 people from each group to a
common group would allow us to attract a bigger audience and boost the
organizer's motivation. The organizer for the Slashdot group told me
nobody showed up for his last 2 meetings and he ended up sitting there
all by himself. He's very disappointed and understandably is considering
droping the reins of the group. Hang in there buddy... I can completely
relate to it... Well, now we have to get in touch with the other
organizers and see if they want to join forces and form the new "**Geek
Alliance of New Jersey**."
