---

date: 2005-03-21
slug: |
  red-storm-on-the-horizon
tags:
 - english
 - work
 - life
title: Red Storm On The Horizon
---

What a week this has been... and it's only Monday!!! After putting up
with a lot of infantile abuse from my upper management things seem to be
heading South. I used to feel that the entire organization was plotting
against me and wondered if it was just me. But now, I have definite
confirmation that my sanity is still somewhat intact! My new co-worker
(and I think she was also hired to be my supervisor) has been
experiencing all the abuse herself for a few weeks now and seems to be
in the brink of walking out of here! I had somewhat managed to contain
my frustrations and turned myself into "one of them" (as I call most of
the employess around here who act like complete zombies) so as to avoid
getting an ulcer. I even managed to enjoy my days as long as I had my
MP3 collection and a good set of headphones at hand. All my zen-like
concentration has now been flushed down the drain, thanks to the latest
paranoia from upper management: military-like schedules, no flexibility
what-so-ever! Now, I drive 1.5 hours each way to work every day, passing
through the George Washington bridge, F.D.R., and Triborogh bridge.
Assuming that traffic is standard or even controllable is very naive.
Assuming you can garantee someone you'll arrive day in, day out at the
same time is also naive. Even when I leave 1 hour earlier I still can
not make such claim. Well, the latest paranoia revolves around their
demand that we, lowly consultants, be here on time and not a single
minute later or else... The else part was not explained yet. I have been
"pretty good" these last few months, managing to arrive if not before
8:30am at least no later than 8:50am. I have also stayed after 5:00pm to
make up for any missed time. Obviously they don't have to be flexible
with me (or anyone else) and someone could even tell me "tough luck" as
has my manager told me today. But is it really unreasonable to be 5-10
minutes flexible? Is it really worth the trouble of making your
employees feel like slaves? So much for wanting to be part of a team!

As I was typing this post my co-worker was called off to a closed door
meeting with our manager and director. Approximately 10 minutes later
she comes back with the look of someone who's been pushed against the
wall by a bully. Choking her disgust back she told me she was forced to
give them her final stand. "What if we cannot accomodate your needs?"
they asked. "I'll just have to find a new job then!" she replied.

Bravo!!! Bravo!!! Maybe they'll come for me next...
