---

date: 2005-03-21
slug: |
  ubuntu-help-guy
tags:
 - english
title: Ubuntu Help Guy
---

Lately I have found myself hanging out at \#ubuntu on
[irc.freenode.org](http://irc.freenode.org), mostly listening and
lending a helping hand whenver I can. It sort of reminds me of what I
think Open Source and Community really means! I have personally gotten
insulted in the past by some pretty lame IRC users who assume that
everyone is an idiot and who can't say anything helpfull but repeat
"rtfm" to every enquire. But I will not go off on a tangent here and
rant about all those "newbie basher" loosers out there. Somehow, the
people at \#ubuntu seem to have a different mentality and more willing
to help even if the questions seem to be "too basic." I think this is
why I remotely connected to my box during lunch today and spent a good
30 minutes talking to some of the users. I really enjoy the feeling of
being able to teach someone something new. I not only content myself
with giving the answer but also try to provide more information so that
the user can learn a bit more and understand why the given solution
works. That sort of "teach a man how to fish" kind of thing. I also try
to validate what I know by asking some of the veterans for their input
as well. So far I'm really enjoying "hanging out" with the
[Ubuntu](http://www.ubuntulinux.org) guys and am looking forward to
helping and learning with this growing community.
