---

date: 2005-03-28
slug: |
  open-source-alliance-march-24th-2005
tags:
 - english
title: Open Source Alliance - March 24th, 2005
---

I completely forgot to mention about this last Thursday's first [Open
Source Alliance](http://opensource.meetup.com/53/) meeting at Paramus'
Panera Bread. I arrived earlier than everybody else despite the really
bad traffic on Route 4 West. The place was really crowded and I couldn't
set up my laptop at the "usual" place by the conference room. I ended up
going to the couch by the front entrance. Armed with a hot cup of coffee
I proceeded to get boot my laptop and get some internet going... About
15 minutes later I realized something fishy was going on with the free
wifi for I just could not get a working IP assigned. I also realized
that nobody had shown up yet. Another 10 minutes went by and I just
completely gave up on the wifi and took a walk to the back of Panera to
see if anybody was there... I started to wonder if the meeting had been
set to meet at a different Panera Bread, the one on 17 North. Luckly
there were 4 guys already there with their laptops. I quickly grabbed my
stuff and joined them for a very short meeting. Without the wifi access
and having only 20+ minutes left we didn't really get much accomplished.
Steve (Open Source Alliance's organizer), Murph (Slashdot's organizer)
and I (for those who don't know, I'm the organizer for the Northern NJ
Linux group) talked a bit about the unification of our groups and it was
decided that starting next month, all individual meetings will be
scheduled to coincide on the same date/venue. April 11th will be the
last un-unified Linux meeting of the year and I'm planning to have a
live install of Ubuntu. Hope to have a good turn out.
