---

date: 2005-03-30
slug: |
  el-robot
tags:
 - english
title: El Robot
---

My sister had told me about
[this](http://www.wired.com/wired/archive/13.04/robot.html) when she
called to wish us a happy Easter. She was very excited about it and
thought I'd feel the same. For those of you who don't read any "geek
news" or avoid any conversations that don't relate to music videos or
movies: Wired magazine published an article in this month's issue about
"*How four underdogs from the mean streets of Phoenix took on the best
from M.I.T. in the national underwater bot championship.*\" The nature
of the contest is obscured and relegated to white-noise background and
the real meat of the article is to describe how these 4 illegal high
school immigrants were able to compete against and beat teams from some
of the best colleges in the nation. M.I.T.'s team must have been the
most famous participant for their name appears at least a dozen times in
the article. The contest itself comprised of maneauvering an aquatic
robot through an underwater (duhh) obstacle course as well as perform
certain tasks. Having managed only \$800 of cash for support, these 4
kids had to improvise and choose very carefully the building blocks for
their bot: ::wikipedia(\"pvc\",\"PVC\"):: pipes and tampons were some of
the items in their arsenal. The whole story reminds me of when I went to
high school and had to take one of those standardized tests (was it the
::wikipedia(\"psat\",\"PSAT\")::?) required to graduate. While following
the oral instructions to fill out the first page of the test, one
teacher walking around the \"immigrant section\" of the library (we,
immigrants, had been segregated to this section of the library, away
from the \"Americans\") noticed that we **all** had finished filling out
the tests and were waaaay ahead of everybody else. He was so astonished
that he said to a guy sitting next to me: "I don't care what *they* say
about you... I think you're all very smart!" To this day I still wonder
what "*they*\" thought of \"*us*"!!!
