---

date: 2005-03-30
slug: |
  saving-the-world-one-plugin-at-a-time
tags:
 - english
 - random
 - life
title: Saving The World, One Plugin AT A Time
---

Today I added the [Dynamic Text
Replace](http://www.coffee2code.com/archives/2005/03/29/plugin-dynamic-text-replace/)
plugin for WordPress to my blog. I'm a bit lazy when it comes to writing
and hate when I cannot do something by using the keyboard only. Or when
I have to type the same thing over and over. That is why I chose to use
this plugin. Dynamic Text Replace "allows you to easily pre-define text
replacement template strings and allow for text to be passed in." In
lame terms, if I want to link something I've written about (a word for
instance) to a reference site (a dictionary with the definition to said
word), all I have to do is use the proper short syntax and the plugin
will dynamically enter all the necessary html tags and render it to the
viewer. It has definitely helped me speed up my blog writing and
elliminates the use of the mouse.

Now, after writing 2 posts today I noticed something peculiar: There
were new lines inserted into my posts for every time I used a shortcut
(pseudo-function). I decided to check the developer's site and leave
some feedback, when I also noticed that some other people were having
problems using the plugin. I dropped a quick comment and shortly after
the author himself replied saying that my issue was due to some
debugging code left behind (and we developers can all relate to that).
He thanked me for pointing out the issue as well as for my feedback that
solved other people's problems. A new "patched" version was immediately
available for download and I'm happy to inform that everything is
running smoothly (as it should). I never get tired of how gratefying
helping out the Open Source community can be!
