---

date: 2005-04-28
slug: |
  media-player-round-up
tags:
 - english
 - random
title: Media Player Round Up
---

Someone had commented on a previous post about a media player for
Windows called [Foobar2000](http://foobar2000.org/). Having just been
swept off my feet by [Billy](http://www.sheepfriends.com/?page=billy), I
decided to give it a try. I chose the "Special" download option and was
very impressed with the extensive options for music file formats
available. There's also a good amount of modules or plugins that can be
downloaded from the web site. The interface is very simple and
minimalistic, focusing almost that entirely on the task at hand: just
playing your music files. I threw some .ogg and .mp3 files at it and
wasn't disappointed. I then tried one of my .acc audible books but alas,
the stupid encryption/protection got in the way. Satisfied with my
experiment, I decided to perform yet another "benchmark" to see which
media player I have used the most resources. **Disclaimer:** I'm not by
a long shot an expert in benchmarking noir have I specialized tools to
perform such a task. I simply relied on the information displayed by
Microsoft's Task Manager window. The following are my findings for the
applications listed below (running both .mp3 and .ogg files at work,
except for Winamp which doesn't support .ogg playback AFAIK):

Application

Memory Used

[Foobar2000](http://foobar2000.org/)

12,188 K

[Billy](http://www.sheepfriends.com/?page=billy)

\~2,500 K

[MusikCube](http://www.musikcube.com)

\~10,500 K

[Winamp](http://www.winamp.com)

21,948 K

[Windows Media
Player](http://www.microsoft.com/windows/windowsmedia/default.aspx)

\~15,412 K

I must confess I was amazed at the performance comparison between
Microsoft MP and Winamp! I must admit I was expecting that WMP would be
the big bloat in the group... Too bad I don't have Real Player installed
at work (come to think of it, I don't have it installed at home
either!!!) so I could add to the experiment. For those of you who are
running a slow system or optimizing greedy users as I am, the top 2
applications listed here have my full endorsement (and before anyone
ask, I do not work or get paid by either one of them... :) ).
