---

date: 2005-05-02
slug: |
  reviewing-the-reviewers-hg2g
tags:
 - english
title: "Reviewing The Reviewers: HG2G"
---

I just had to get this off my chest! I have read a few "reviews" for The
Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy and am very annoyed by what everyone is
saying. I'd say that 5% of these so called reviews say that nobody
should see it due to its deviations from the original book, how they
Hollywood-ed the plot by adding a romance, yadda, yadda... And I kept
thinking: "So what the movie is not a transcription from book??? Does it
have its own merits??? " Having read the book once and not yet seen the
movie, I could care less if they made a few "tweaks" here and there. Can
someone really envision a movie that would do justice to the book???
Unless they turned it into an animated feature (e.g. [The
Incredibles](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0317705/), [Toy
Story](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0114709/), etc) there is no way, no
matter how much FX you use, that the movie would be just like the book!
When I watched the "[Lord of the
Rings](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0120737/)\" trilogy I noticed how
many things they left out from the books because there was just no
possible way to replicate it in a movie! They even changed some of the
things that happened to Aragorn but even with all of these things, I
truelly enjoyed the movies!

So my point for this quick post is to tell the hundreds of movie
reviewers out there not to forget that a movie is a director's
interpretation of something (in this case a book) and since
interpretation is something very personal, it COULD be different than
yours.
