---

date: 2005-05-03
slug: |
  close-call
tags:
 - english
 - life
title: Close Call
---

Not in a blogging mood today... Got home last night at **9:30pm(!!!)**
and checked my messages: 1 new message! An old girl-friend crying and
mumbbling about her sister (also an old good friend) having an
accident... broken up telephone number to call back (she must have
called from a cell phone... had to rewind message 2 times... Call number
and a guy answers... After introductions ("Hi, I'm an old friend of such
and such...") learn that the sister had apparently "thrown herself out
the window of her second floor apartment." Find out which hospital she
is and try to call... "Vising hours are over!" Shortly after a friend of
the girl calls me and tells me a bit more info... Terrible accident due
to alcohol... Fell off the fire exit ladder... broke 3rd vertebrae...
just had surgery... removed a rib and used to to replace
vertebrae(????)... Today I didn't go to work and went early to the
hospital. Spent 3 1/2 hours with my friend, trying to cheer her up and
just plainly keep her company. Later in the morning an aunt showed up
and stayed untill I left.

I've known this girl for almost 10 years but had not seen or heard of
her for the last 8. About 1 1/2 months ago I learned that she was back
in town (not knowing she was out of town for a couple of years) and
decided to get a hold of her. A week later took her out with my family
for a very casual dinner. It felt as if we had never been "disconnected"
for 8 years and our conversations picked up right at the point where we
had left off. Saturday night she had dinner at my house, where I amazed
her with one of my 2 laptops running Ubuntu linux while fixing her
Windows XP laptop. Sunday morning she calls me to give her some
information on installing Office. Sunday evening she apparently went on
a "drinking spree" culminating with her "forced landing."

Last time I heard of her today she had somewhat feelings on her
legs/toes... She's only 22 years old...
