---

date: 2005-05-10
slug: |
  a-hazy-shade-of-freedom
tags:
 - english
 - work
 - nycsca
 - life
title: A Hazy Shade Of Freedom
---

After battling for a few days with a certain **free** (as in
non-proxy-ed) wifi AP, I experienced approximately 5 minutes of
unlimited freedom right after lunch. My friend
[Kelvin](http://www.kaegisllc.com) and I had spent a good chunk of our
morning trying to figure out why the connection was dropping all the
time but to no avail. I did some "googling" around and saw that some
people have been complaining about the same problem but for me this only
happens at this certain AP. At home the connection is rock solid! I got
the suspicion that the problem is that the AP is now using WEP
authentication but some other type (maybe Cisco's LEAP?) that keeps
fluctuating the WEP keys. That could explain why I sometimes get the
connection and then it just drops! Anyhow, for 5 minutes today I
experienced sheer joy when I was able to get a signal and listen to my
favorite [internet radio station](http://www.radioparadise.com/)... I
need to spend some more time trying to figure out the solution to this
mystery.

On unrelated news, [WordPress](http://wordpress.org/) 1.5.1 was just
released, apparently to fix some type of exploit. Will make sure to
update this site some time later today. I've decided to use
[these](http://wordpress.org/support/topic/33189) instructions to
upgrade from 1.5.0 to 1.5.1.
