---

date: 2005-05-31
slug: |
  there-and-back-again
tags:
 - english
 - chapel hill
 - unc
 - life
title: There And Back Again
---

After driving approximately 1,014 miles over this Memorial Day weekend,
I'm finally back home from Chapel Hill. Had a blast visiting my sister
together with my wife and daughter. My older sister and uncle also
tagged along to supposedly help out with the driving. Went to sleep at
1am on Thursday and got up at 4am!!! Managed to get there by 3pm and was
completely overwhelmed by a feeling of peace. It felt like I was on a
different planet all together. A planet where everybody slowed down to
smell the flowers!!! There was so much nature and so little visible
technology that I didn't mind being cut out from the rest of the world
for those 3 days. I woke up early every day and tried to make the best
out of it. Besides relaxing and watching my daughter acting so happy all
the time, I also managed to go to an open market (where I bought the
best, juiciest peaches I have ever eaten in my life) Saturday morning
and visit the [Sarah P. Duke
Gardens](http://www.hr.duke.edu/dukegardens/dukegardens.html)! One word:
AWSOME!!! I had never seen such a beatiful place in my life either!
Sunday we barbecued and big time pigged out while watching to some cool
country music and drowning ourselves with some Belgina beer!

This trip has made such an impact in my family that I have already
started seriously looking for a fulltime job there. Sunday I bought the
local paper but didn't find anything promising except for a lovely 3
bedroom / 2.5 baths ranch by a lake for **\$192K**!!! My whole priority
list has been turned upside down for I honestly feel there's no other
place I rather spend the next 10-20 years of my life than Chapel Hill
(or nearby towns)! Today I managed to send in a few resumes and will now
try to make it a habit until someone calls me back!
