---

date: 2005-06-22
slug: |
  holding-my-breath
tags:
 - english
title: Holding My Breath
---

Well, it's been a while since I wrote anything here (or any where for
that matter). Besides being busy with my daughter being sick all last
week, there was a major reason for my absence: Last Friday I was phone
interviewed for a job at **\`Microsoft
\<http://www.microsoft.com\>\`\_\_** and afraid I'd jinx myself by
telling anyone, I refrained from blogging. I'd say the interview went
very well but in the end I don't think I had everything the position
required. Namely, my lack of ASP.NET programming experience might have
influenced their decision and could explain why I haven't heard back
from them. Friday was the second phase of the interview process, which
started approximately one week before that with a questionnaire via an
email. I was very shocked when I first received their email asking me if
I'd be interested in applying for a position at their Mac division in
Redmond, WA. I filled out the questionnaire but wasn't expecting
anything out of it. So you can probably imagine my surprise when they
emailed me back asking me when would be an appropriate time for a phone
interview! Since they were looking for a Senior level ASP.NET position
I'm very sure I'm out of the game already. But it is good to know that
my resume circulated someone's desk at the biggest software company in
the world!
