---

date: 2005-06-23
slug: |
  epiphany
tags:
 - english
title: Epiphany
---

One other reason why I haven't been blogging much these days is because
I've been focusing every little bit of free time I have reading up on
business and economics. This must be a shock for those who have known me
for a while. I had never, ever in my 31 years of age cared about either
subject. My perspective about money was that of something that was too
hard to get and keep! I remember that my plans for my future after
college would be to become this kick ass scientist and eventually offer
the results of my research up to the general public FREE of charge!
Don't get me wrong, I still would like to offer any/all fruits of my
labor "for the good of society", but... Life after college wasn't very
kind to me and I never became the successfull and famous scientist I
wanted to be... and I got married. Having spent the last 7+ years
working my butt off, day in day out just so that I could afford a roof
over my head and live a decent life, I'm more than ready to get out of
this rat race! Last week I came across a very interesting article titled
something more or less like "How to become a millionaire." All my life I
have avoided these types of articles/shows/books/younameit mainly
because I always expected it to be some kind of scam. This time around
something made me take the time to read it... I guess it was my
disappointment after checking the lottery results and not getting any of
the 6 numbers... Who knows??? All I know is that a light went off in me
and all of a sudden I felt like learning more about MONEY! My dad will
be very proud of me since it **only took me 31 years** to finally take
to heart what he's been hammering in my head all these years. From that
article (which I can't seem to remember the name or url) I moved on to a
book called "[Rich Dad, Poor
Dad](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/0446677450/103-4819261-4908620?v=glance)\"
by Robert T. Kiyosaki and Sharon L. Lechter... I just could not put it
down!!! Another 1,000 light bulbs went off in me and I immediately went
out and bought more books!!! I also started doing things that I had
never done before, such as watch the market and some specific stocks.
Now, don't assume that I'm this naive guy who believes everything he
reads or hears poeple talk about making money, for I am not. What these
books HAVE done to me is make me pay more attention to what's going on
around me and not take money or economics for granted any more. Thanks
to that initial article and \"[Rich Dad, Poor
Dad](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/0446677450/103-4819261-4908620?v=glance)\"
I no longer tune people out when house buying and mortages become the
subject during social gatherings. For one thing, I feel that I have been
depriving myself from learning a very interesting subject, one which has
the potential of not only enriching my mind but also giving me the bonus
possibility of hopefully improving my financial situation. I have been
reborn as a capitalist!
