---

date: 2005-07-28
slug: |
  guns-germs-metal
tags:
 - english
title: Guns, Germs, & Metal
---

Though this is not a review for the book and tv show with the same
title, it is about some of the topics portraid in both: The colonization
of our planet and how our socio-economic make-up came to be as
influenced by "guns, germs, and metal." I had thought of writing about
it before and have been procrastinating it for quite some time. I
believe the reason behind this delay was because I wasn't confident I'd
be able to properly express my ideas in writing without making it sound
boring or without proper foundation. Though my confidence in my writing
skills haven't really changed, I strongly feel that someone should say
something about it.

Having spent my first 16 years of life outside of the U.S., I first
learned about the subject of history while attending fourth grade in
Brazil. If I remember correctly, everyone learns "Ancient World History"
in fourth grade. We were taught about ancient Egypt and Greece, with its
magnificent history and mythological figures and events. As we
"travelled" along the chronological time-line, we were introduced to the
first great nations and their conquests... Names such as Gengis Khan,
Cesar, Napoleon, etc became part of our vocabulary. With every passing
year we'd cover newer eras and learn about the great explorers and how
their acchiements helped shape our world.

I must admit that it took me nearly 20 years to realize the obvious: All
so called "heroes" were flawless! Everything they did was for the good
of civilization and I cannot recall ever reading a passage in all the
history books I had read that depicted the "other side" of historical
events! It was only after I became an adult and was able to think
independently that certain historical facts became a little bit more
clear to me. Show me an explorer who conquered a nation (or any piece of
populated land) and I'll show you a bully and a coward! America was
colonized at the cost of literally millions of innocent lives and their
(mostly precious metal of some type) possessions. Start with
**Christopher Columbus**! During his first visit to what I think is the
Dominican Republic today, he retributed their hospitality with the
imprisonment and/or massacre of the native inhabitants. Has anyone
watched Pocahontas??? What about the blood-thirsty **Francisco
Pizarro**, single-handly responsible for the decimation of the Inca
empire in Peru? The Alamo? How about our American Indians??? Can anyone
honestly sit through a Western movie and not see what our founders did
to an entire nation? How about the purchase of Manhattan from the
Manhattan indians for supposedly \$24 worth of merchandise??? Can you
see a pattern evolving here???

The truth is I am utterly disgusted with our history and how we seem to
have forgotten all the atrocities done to the less fortunate inhabitants
of the Americas. We even celebrate these tyrants of history by reserving
a special day just for them: Columbus Day??? It should be a day of
reflection and mourning for all the deaths his so called "discovery"
brought upon this continent. All the gold and silver that line some of
the European cities today are a sad reminder of what a nation with guns,
germs, and metal can do to people who have often been label as
"**salvages.**\" The irony...
