---

date: 2005-08-23
slug: |
  shopping-spree
tags:
 - english
title: Shopping Spree
---

Right before I succumbed to some major infection and spend most of my
Sunday and Monday in bed in agonizing pain and fever, I managed to buy a
few things:

[Band of
Brothers](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/B00006CXSS/qid=1124808786/sr=8-1/ref=pd_bbs_1/104-0360926-7143948?v=glance&s=dvd&n=507846)
(DVD set) - Finally managed to buy it! Back in February while attending
Linux World in Boston, I watched the first 7Â 1/2 episodes at
Supertoadman's house. About 3 weeks ago I mustered enough courage to
cough up the \$100+ for the set only to forget to pick it up at the
register. The last 3 episodes are very good and I was saddened when I
finished episode 10...

[1491: New Revelations of the Americas Before
Columbus](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/140004006X/qid=1124808714/sr=2-1/ref=pd_bbs_b_2_1/104-0360926-7143948?v=glance&s=books)
- A great book detailing the new studies about the colonization process
of the Americas, focusing on the pre-colonization (or should I say
pre-genocide?) years. Did you know that, based on these studies, there
were more people living in the Americas than in Europe before 1491?
Amazing read.

[Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies, New
Edition](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/0393061310/qid=1124808734/sr=2-2/ref=pd_bbs_b_2_2/104-0360926-7143948?v=glance&s=books)
- After being completely swept off my feet by the PBS documentary I was
just waiting for a good excuse to lay my hands on the book. Should be an
enlighting read too.

The Constitution of the United States and the Declaration of
Independence - Amazing how "only a few sheets" of paper (as compared to
other nation's) form the constitution of the US!!!

I've become more and more interested in the pre-colonization history of
the Americas. It amazes me how little we learn of it in school and how
we all seem to have taken it for granted.
