---

date: 2005-08-26
slug: |
  office-space
tags:
 - english
title: Office Space
---

**Legend:**

**Ship's Captain** - The V.P. for a certain local organization. **Slave
Master** - Works for the Ship's Captain. Has the ability to send shivers
down the spines of most slaves and turn her Pacers into docile puppies.
**Pacer** - Works for the Slave Master, mostly by pretending to control
the Slaves and licking the Slave Master's feet with their bifurcated
tongues. **Slaves** - Bottom dwellers at said "ship." Spend their days
avoiding the "ship's staff" and minding other Slaves' business. **Rowing
(both hands)** - Equivalent of doing some type of work. **Rowing (one
hand)**- Doing less work while using other hand for other business;
usually talking on the cell phone. **Galleys** - Outside of your work
area. **Chatting** - Talking about non-work related subjects. **Land of
the Rum** - A place in the Caribbean sea. **Slashing** - Type of work
that would insult the brain of an amoeba... oh wait... Amoebas don't
even have brains... **Amoeba** - Our ship's DBAs.

**Story:**

*\[Slave\]*: sure! *\[Slave Master\]*: ... and I just wanted to talk to
you about something... *\[Slave Master\]*: It has been brought to my
attention by the **Ship's Captain** that you've been seen **rowing**
with one hand a few times down in the **galleys**... Also, he's seen you
chatting with the **slave** from the **Land of the Rum** a couple of
times. *\[Slave\]*: ... uh... ok... *\[Slave Master\]:* I need to ask
you: Are we giving you enough **rowing** or do you need some
**slashing** to keep you motivated? *\[Slave\]:* No, no... My **rowing**
routine is just fine... and... *\[Slave Master\]:* ... you see, since
you're not a fulltime rower at our ship, you're supposed to row all the
time... All biological functions or personal needs should be withheld
until designated times, as defined by your **pacer**... Preferably, when
the ship is not moving and the sun has gone down... Fulltime rowers,
however, are exempt from the above rules and can pretty much function as
normal human beings. *\[Slave\]:* .... I want to thank you for reminding
me so kindly of my position in this ship's social ladder. I will hold
our conversation very close to my heart and as a sign of my gratitude
I'd like to request some more **slashes** with the spiked whip?

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Beautiful way to start your Friday!
