---

date: 2005-08-26
slug: |
  comic-buddy-reborn
tags:
 - english
title: "Comic Buddy\\# Reborn?"
---

Been talking to someone from work quite extensive about Linux, Mono and
C\# these last 4 days. So much in fact that I looked back at my old pet
project, Comic Buddy\#. This had been a VB6 application I had written
several years ago to allow me to browse all/any Calvin and Hobbes or
Garfield comic strip that were (back then) freely available online.
These comics, together with many others are still housed and fiercely
maintained by a group (the company name and web site url left out on
purpose) that has recently changed their policies concerning the viewing
of said strips.

To make a long story short, the application built a dynamic string
pointing directly to the comic's url and displayed it onto a web browser
control embedded in the application. The program itself was freely
distributed at several locations, including downloads.com, and reached
25,000 downloads at one time. Feeling that a lot of people could take
advantage of this program, I then naively contacted said group and
offered to give them the rights to distribute it on their web site, free
of charge. I did receive a reply stating they were very interested and
had a few suggestions for possible enhancements, to which I agreed.
However, shortly after that email, I received another one where they
politely refused my offer and told me they had decided to develop
something similar in-house. I didn't think much of it afterward until I
received a legal "cease and desist" email from the group's lawyers. I
promptly contacted them and tried to defend me from the accusations that
I was distributing copyrighted material. I tried in vain to explain to
the guy on the phone that the application worked as a web browser and
nothing was being distributed... That very same day Comic Buddy was
removed and never seen again (those there are some places out there in
the wild www where you can still manage to get a broken copy of the
installer).

Talking to this person from work made me go back to sourceforge.net and
download the source code for my failed attempt at porting Comic Buddy to
C\# (and Linux). Here's a screenshot of Comic Buddy\# at a very
rudimentary stage. Maybe this is the inspiration to go back to coding
that I needed?

[![ComicBuddy](http://photos26.flickr.com/37413749_0582f28c85.jpg)](http://photos26.flickr.com/37413749_0582f28c85_o.png)
