---

date: 2005-08-29
slug: |
  installing-iwhax-linux-on-vmware-5
tags:
 - english
title: Installing iWhax Linux on VMWare 5
---

My good friend from **\`The Land of the Rum
\<http://www.ogmaciel.com/?p=166\>\`\_\_** has spent the last 4-5 days
attempting to install [iWhax Linux](http://www.iwhax.net/modules/news/)
onto him Windows XP laptop via [VMWare](http://www.vmware.com/) 5. If I
remember correctly, there weren't a lot of usefull information "out
there" in the web and the few posts we (I also did some googling on the
side for him) came across were either inacurate or not very newbie
friendly. I remember that I borrowed his laptop this last Friday and
tried some of the "recipes" but the automated installation script (don't
remember the exact location in the iWhax menu) failed miserably every
single attempt.

Well, after advising him to make a few changes to his recipe, I am very
proud to inform that he's cooked up a hell of a recipe! I was very
fortunate to watch iWhax's Lilo screen show up and eventually see the
distribution running flawlessly. I guess the part that I'm most proud of
is the amount of work he put into it and how much he learned these few
days! I also learned a few tricks here and there and was able to
practice my low-level Linux knowledge.

There's also someone else who's been talking to me since last Friday
(and as a matter of fact just sent me an email here at work) about his
new quest for the ultimate Linux experience. It is times life these that
make my stay here a bit more enjoyable. This place is slowly turning
into a Linux hookery and I'm the **\*Pater Familis**\*! ;)

My friend will post his recipe fairly soon together with a copy of the
virtual machine, which I'll happily host for him. Check back for more
information soon.
