---

date: 2005-08-31
slug: |
  night-at-the-opera
tags:
 - english
title: Night at the Opera
---

Yesterday, following the announcement that the folks behind the
[Opera](http://www.opera.com) web browser were giving away registration
keys (the FREE part is implied) in celebration of their 10th
anniversary, I too took the time to download a Linux version to see what
the big deal was.

[Opera](http://www.opera.com) is yet another web browser that is freely
available for several different operating systems (Linux and Windows
included) with a small caviat: The un-registered version has a
toolbar-like banner displaying adds while you browse. I never really
gave it a chance and completely gave up on it... maybe the banner had
something to do with it... You see, I don't mind paying for software
that I like! I have actually bought packaged Slackware and Red Hat CDs
after the fact that I had been using them for quite some time... It was
my way of thanking all the developers behind their respective
distributions for all their time and effort. I have also paid for my
dad's Zone Alarm Pro! But I am very happy with Mozilla Firefox and
figured it made no sense to buy something for something else at the
time.

Shortly after I arrived home from work I checked my email with the
registration key (they sent me one for pretty much all operating systems
supported) and proceeded to install it. Within literally seconds I was
off browsing the web. So far I don't have any feelings toward it and
haven't seen any differences besides the UI. Some people have claimed it
to be much faster than Firefox but I'm yet to see this performance. I'll
make a concious effort to use Opera for 1 week to give it a proper
chance and maybe will post back here what my finds were.
