---

date: 2005-09-26
slug: |
  helping-out-ubuntu
tags:
 - english
title: Helping out Ubuntu
---

Over the weekend I finally took the first step towards my resolution to
take a more active role in helping out the open source community. As of
last Friday, I joined the hordes of developers and open source
enthusiasts who signed up for Ubuntu's LaunchPad project and offered to
help with the ongoing process of translating applications and documents
from English to Portuguese (Brazil). I spoke with the organizer for this
specific translation effort and was told to submit suggestions to some
of the sections still pending.

Having not been officially accepted as part of the team, I guess they
wanted to see if I was really willing to go through it and not just
wasting their time. For approximately 17 years I lived in Brazil and my
knowledge of the language and grammar is something I was very proud of.
However, for the last 14-15 years I haven't really used it much and am a
bit rusty... but I guess this is like riding a bike... Once I started
translating, something inside me woke up and it was smooth sailing... I
did, however, have a hard time trying to translate certain tecnical
words for I had never learned or used them in Portuguese before.

I'm currently working on the [Translation of faqguide into Portuguese
(Brazil)
(pt_BR)](https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/breezy/+sources/ubuntu-docs/+pots/faqguide/pt_BR)
and 2 other minor application translations. I have also spent several
hours hanging out on \#ubuntu @ Freenode on IRC and managed to help out
a few users. I hope to be able to spend more time there as well as help
out translating more documents to Portuguese (Brazil). One day I can
tell future Brazilian Ubuntu users that I helped this great distro (and
some open source applications) by making it available to them in their
native language!
