---

date: 2005-10-04
slug: |
  is-less-better
tags:
 - english
title: Is Less Better?
---

I've been following a very interesting discussion that has taken place
these last few days on [Planet Debian](http://planet.debian.org/) about
application usability and how much information exposed to a user is too
much. In one end you have [Axel
Beckert](http://noone.org/blog/English/Computer/Web/Browsers/The%20Galeon%201.3.x%20Rant%2c%20Part%202.5.html)
(with some commentary support by
[Wouter](http://www.grep.be/blog/2005/10/04/#why_I_left_gnome)) talking
about how some of the new changes made to the
[Galeon](http://galeon.sourceforge.net/) web browser have actually
"crippled it" for the more "advanced" user. On the other side of the
"rink" is [Erich Schubert](http://blog.drinsama.de/erich/), who believes
that most users are not interested in seeing every possible
configuration option a web browser has to offer.

The "logic" behind these changes is that a normal user would never want
to set certain configuration options and should therefore not be
displayed at all!!! Having developed a few applications and dealt
directly with end users in my career, I can see why you wouldn't your
users to know what the real database field name for a report parameter
is, since chances are the user won't know what to do with that piece of
information. But that assumption will only work if your application gets
used by "normal" users. The moment it gets adopted by someone who dares
to go beyond the default settings/uses/etc, that assumption is thrown
out of the window. In my case, there were users who not only wanted to
learn the specifics behind the application, but were able to extract
much more information and provide excellent feedback during the
development of new featueres. Since they learned how the application
worked under the hood, they were able to better design their experiments
(this was when I was working for a pharmaceutical company) so to take
advantage of the system. They also knew where to get their data and that
proved to be very important during their data analysis.

I have got to side with Axel Beckert here... The same way Linux allows
me to control my computer, I should be able to control how I want my
applications behave. For some people, just being able to browse the web
should suffice... and that is ok... let that be the default... and they
don't have to even lift up the hood. For some others, myself included,
the default settings may not be the optimal solution.

Say no to software design dictatorship!
