---

date: 2005-10-24
slug: |
  setting-up-a-planet
tags:
 - english
title: Setting up a Planet
---

No, this is not a post about the creation of the universe and such.
[Planet](http://planetplanet.org/) "*is a flexible feed aggregator. It
downloads news feeds published by web sites and aggregates their content
together into a single combined feed, latest news first.*\" In other
words, it is one of the best ideas since the sliced bread was invented.
I have come to rely heavily on planets to get my daily dose of tech news
(as you can see from the blogs I have listed here)... [Planet
Gnome](http://planet.gnome.org/), [Planet
Debian](http://planet.debian.org/), [Planet
Ubuntu](http://planet.ubuntulinux.org/%0A)... there seems to be a planet
for almost anything you can think of. Instead of subscribing to
individual blogs, you can read through a whole bunch of different ones
that share (most of the time) one common interest.

Today I realized that, as far as I know, there aren't any technical
planets out there aimed at Brazilian (or Portuguese speaking) readers.
Being that I have spent a big chunk of my personal time working with the
Brazilian Ubuntu team, I thought that maybe a Planet Ubuntu Brazil would
be a great idea to allow better communication of ideas (for those who
don't subscribe to our mailing list) between the members as well as
allow "outsiders" to take a peek at what's going on with their favorite
Linux distribution and our effort to translate every single package from
English to Brazilian Portuguese.

Reading [this](http://baruch.ev-en.org/blog/Misc/the-making-of-a-planet)
post today only added more fuel to the fire! So far, the replies to my
idea (via mailing list) has been but a small trickle... Hopefully, as
the day gets in the way, more people will read about the idea and reply
with comments or suggestions.
