---

date: 2006-02-06
slug: |
  is-less-better-take-2
tags:
 - english
title: Is Less Better? - Take 2
---

I've been following with extreme interest (and caution) the
[discussion](http://cipherfunk.org/diary/archives/monthly/2006-02.html#e2006-02-06T15_36_20.htm)
[that](http://www.chipx86.com/blog/?p=151)
[has](http://hpj.blognaco.com/2006/02/05/text-in-icons/)
[been](http://blogs.gnome.org/view/uraeus/2006/02/05/0)
[developing](http://www.advogato.org/person/cinamod/diary.html?start=99)
[about](http://www.advogato.org/person/cinamod/diary.html?start=98) the
many [metamorphosis](http://davyd.livejournal.com/165274.html) the Gnome
desktop has undergone for sake of "simplicity."

Now, I have always been outspoken about the subject of application
usability.Ã‚Â  I have had a few
[discussions](http://www.ogmaciel.com/?p=192) about some of the changes
done to the newer version of Galeon, where certain features were removed
for the sake of "moms and dads" users...Ã‚Â  One day you're happily
using a program that you feel confortable with and attends your every
need... and then, after an "upgrade" you find out (the hard way) that
some features are completely "missing" from action.Ã‚Â  In truth they
are not removed but not accessible anymore from a GUI... but what about
back compatibility?Ã‚Â  I understand the intentions are good but
simplifying is not always the best solution!Ã‚Â  If applications such as
xine and xorg (during manual configuration) allows the user to choose
the level of functionality they want to be exposed to, why not then use
the same system?Ã‚Â  Simplify it (or dummify it) if that's what it takes
to make it more user friendly, but at least give people the choice of
selecting their level of interaction.
