---

date: 2006-03-24
slug: |
  billreminder-in-the-wild
tags:
 - english
title: BillReminder in the Wild!
---

It has been approximately 2 weeks now that I started hosting my pet
project [BillReminder](http://billreminder.sourceforge.net/) on
SourceForge.Ã‚Â  I'm very excited for living up one of my goals for the
year: starting my own open source project.Ã‚Â  The goal is to force
myself to port my programming skills over to Linux, now that Mono is
definitely an emerging force in the Linux community!Ã‚Â  I have managed
to get some people interested in contributing, both with code and
art/web design.

![image0](http://billreminder.sourceforge.net/images/BillReminder.png)

This project was initiated to scratch my own itch, as have many Open
Source projects out there.Ã‚Â  I needed something that would remind me
of financial events (mostly bills to be paid) and allow me to
add/remove/edit more records as needed.Ã‚Â  BillReminder has been
initially developed completely from scratch, relying solely on the newly
ported WinForms namespace to Mono.Ã‚Â  The beauty of this plan (IMNSHO)
is that the same code base can be easily executed in any OS that
supports the .NET Framework, which in this case emcompasses Windows and
Linux (I think Mono has been ported over to the Mac but am not too sure
about it)!Ã‚Â  I have actually been very successfull in running the same
code in both plataforms so far!

I'm currently looking out for more contributors, specially people who
can package and also know some Gtk\# for a secondary version.Ã‚Â  I'm
also looking to learn a whole lot about running an Open Source project,
and would definitely love to get some comments/suggestions about it.

Check back here for upcoming releases and information about the project.
