---

date: 2006-04-21
slug: |
  got-books
tags:
 - english
title: Got Books
---

The amazing guys at [Wiley Books](http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/) (and
more especifically Kit and Colleen!) simply rock! I got to meet Kit at
the Linux World Conference this year, and after talking for a while
about Ubuntu and the new books coming out on the subject, I asked him if
his organization offered any type of sponsorship in the form of giving
out books. Kit was more than eager to offer me his sponsorship, and one
email and a few days later, he put me directly in contact with Colleen
who pretty much told me to order anything from their catalogues.

Now, since I am part of a total of 53 Open Source users at the [Northern
NJ MySQL Meetup](http://mysql.meetup.com/23/) group and 43 members of
the [Ubuntu Brazilian Portuguese
Translators](http://www.ogmaciel.com/43%20members%20of%20the%20Ubuntu%20Brazilian%20Portuguese%20Translators),
I used to buy (out of my pocket) "prizes" to give out to our users as a
means to get them motivated, as well as a token of my appreciation for
their efforts in given back to the Open Source communities. This
sponsorship will allow me to reach out to more people and won't weigh as
much in my pocket at the end of the month.

I emailed Colleen my list this **Tuesday** late afternoon with a small
note that pretty much said: "since I will be attending another expo this
coming **Saturday**, would you be able to send them to me by
**Friday**?" **Thursday** I received 2 boxes with a total of 20 books in
the mail!!! These guys rock!!!

I have received and will bring with me to give out 5 "Linux Bible: Boot
Up to Fedora, KNOPPIX, Debian, SUSE, Ubuntu , and 7 Other Distributions,
2006 Edition" books as prizes at the [Trenton Computer
Festival](http://www.tcf-nj.org/ps)! I have also gotten a box with 300
CDS which should make for a very interesting day! :)

The other books, "Beginning MySQL", "Professional PHP5", and "Beginning
PHP5" I'll be distributing at the next MySQL Meetup next week.

To the Wiley Organization (and Kit and Colleen), my most sincere
gratitude!
