---

date: 2006-05-22
slug: |
  smogarsboard
tags:
 - english
title: Smogarsboard
---

**Time Travel**:Ã‚Â  I received a good number of replies to my
hypothetical question of which figure from the past you would be
interested in meeting (in case you could travel back in time).Ã‚Â  Some
of the answers were fairly interesting and it made me wish I had
increased the hypothetical question to include more options... ;)Ã‚Â 
Anyhow, here's a short list of all the names:

-   Franquin
-   Kenji Miyazawa
-   Siddartha
-   Einstein
-   Da Vinci
-   Victor Hugo
-   Asimov
-   Alan Turing
-   Daniel Balavoine
-   Tolkien
-   Gandhi
-   Osamu Tezuka
-   Plato
-   Socrate
-   Galileo
-   Buddha
-   Hitler
-   the first man
-   Bertrand Russel
-   Pope John Paul II

Hey [Matt](http://people.simplifiedcomplexity.com/~mgalvin), I liked
your choices too!Ã‚Â  As a matter of fact, I did see the movie and was
bombarded with DaVinci, Opus Dai, Holy Grail documentaries all weekend
long, but I actually really like talking about the subject.Ã‚Â  If
you're ever in the New York City vincinity, I'd love to pick YOUR
brain!Ã‚Â  :)

**Dapper Party**:Ã‚Â  Since most of the Ubuntu people IÃ‚Â  talk to on a
daily basis are from Brasil (and I got the feeling I'm the only
Brazilian contributor who doesn't live in the country), I was thinking
of throwing a virtual LAN PARTY this June 1!Ã‚Â  The plan would be to
play Enemy Territory all night long.Ã‚Â  Bring your own beer!Ã‚Â  :p

**Head Hunted**:Ã‚Â  Been cooking up some new job interviews here and
there.Ã‚Â  Am very much looking forward to working for some type of
research oriented company (/me has a B.S. in Biochemistry, believe it or
not)...Ã‚Â  Maybe I should post my resume one of these days...

**Movie-less**:Ã‚Â  Been trying to get a hold of the movie **Munich**
for the last 2 weeks...Ã‚Â  Everything is RENTED OUT!Ã‚Â  And
**Syriana** won't be out 'til late Summer!!!

**Epiphany**:Ã‚Â  The Epiphany experiment is still going...Ã‚Â  Been
Firefox-free for the last 2 weeks and so far so good...Ã‚Â  Didn't even
need to get a Firefox-Patch... ;)
