---

date: 2006-07-05
slug: |
  using-ruby-within-visual-studionet-2005
tags:
 - english
title: Using Ruby Within Visual Studio.NET 2005
---

To all my friends who use Windows for their daily tasks (usually at
work) and enjoy tinkering with Ruby, now there's a way to write, edit,
and debug your Ruby code within Visual Studio .NET 2005. Note that I'm
not refering to
[Ruby.NET](http://tirania.org/blog/archive/2006/Jul-02.html), an
implementation being developed by Dr. Wayne Kelly and Prof. John Gough
of the [Queensland University of
Technology](http://plas.fit.qut.edu.au/Ruby.NET/). This
[tip](http://www.hanselman.com/blog/SapphireInSteelRubyWithinVisualStudio2005.aspx)
was sent my way by my friend [Gerrard
Lindsay](http://www.pickabar.com/blog/), a Microsoft consultant for the
East Region of the United States.The first step would be to install the
version of [Ruby for
Windows](http://rubyinstaller.rubyforge.org/wiki/wiki.pl). Download the
installer and simply double-click it. **WARNING**:: I noticed that the
installer modified my PATH environmental variable, pretty much wiping it
clean and adding the location for the Ruby compiler. Therefore, make a
back-up of its content before proceeding with the installation.Once the
installation is completed, you can pretty much hit the ground running
and start coding using any old text editor. If you do not have a copy of
Visual Studio .NET 2005 installed, and don't quite enjoy coding using
Notepad (who would?), try
[Notepad2](http://www.hanselman.com/blog/NewNotepad2WithRubySyntaxHighlighting.aspx),
which is not only free but has Ruby syntax support built-in! Now, to add
suport for editing and debugging Ruby code in Visual Studio .NET 2005,
download the add-in [Sapphire In Steel](http://www.sapphiresteel.com/)
and follow the installation instructions. Take the time to also download
the free
[book](http://www.sapphiresteel.com/IMG/pdf/LittleBookOfRuby.pdf) (PDF)
and [source
code](http://www.sapphiresteel.com/IMG/zip/little-book-of-ruby-source.zip)
to follow along. The best part is that you can work in your Ruby code,
without any modifications, no matter which plataform you're working on.
Add a dash of **SVN** and you'll be set! **UPDATE**:Ã‚Â  I mistakenly
stated that the Ruby.NET implementation has been done by the Mono guys,
but it was actually done by Dr. Wayne Kelly and Prof. John Gough of the
[Queensland University of
Technology](http://plas.fit.qut.edu.au/Ruby.NET/)Ã‚Â Ã‚Â  I apologize
for the confusion.
