---

date: 2006-07-18
slug: |
  whose-blog-is-it-anyway
tags:
 - english
title: Whose Blog Is It Anyway?
---

It seems that for some reason beyond my understanding, one of my latest
posts ("Back to School") keeps showing up as a new post every so often
in services such as Bloglines.Ã‚Â  Mind you that ONLY this one post
seems to be showing this "symptom."Ã‚Â  I was actually informed that it
keeps getting "refreshed" every 30 minutes.

The reason why I'm writing about this is because I have received
complaints from 3 different sources, citing how extremelly annoying it
is to see my 'gotchi showing up in their news reader dujour.Ã‚Â  Someone
even mentioned that the mere site of it made his stomach turn!Ã‚Â 
Hehe...Ã‚Â  Now, I'm not too vain and won't take it personal.Ã‚Â  But
one of the comments I received "kindly" asked me to remove myself from
Planet Ubuntu!

Being the curious type I am, I decided to take a peek at Bloglines and
serched for the word: Ubuntu.Ã‚Â  Sure enough my post came up, as it did
every other time I performed the same search in the following 8
hours.Ã‚Â  THAT is definitely extremelly annoying for sure!Ã‚Â  In my
defense, I noticed that the feed is not coming directly from my blog,
but from the Planet itself.Ã‚Â  Not really sure why this is happening
but, could the fact that the title itself of the post ("Back to School")
and that someone could be "googling" for the same terms, have anything
to do with it?

But that's besides the point.Ã‚Â  I obviously "feel" their pain but...
what right does he have to tell me to remove my blog from the locations
where they're being sindicated?Ã‚Â  This is my blog after all.Ã‚Â  What
is next?Ã‚Â  People will tell me what to write too???
