---

date: 2006-09-08
slug: |
  a-little-bit-of-light-in-the-tunnel
tags:
 - english
title: A little bit of light in the tunnel
---

First off I need to thank you all who contacted me, either directly or
via this blog, with your kind words of encouragement and advice!Ã‚Â  I
really mean it!

Through all the confusion and difficulties my family and I have
undergone these last 2 weeks, I'm happy to announce that a little bit of
light has crept through the darkness of the tunnel.Ã‚Â  Yesterday I was
interviewed for a programmer position within a company not too far from
where I live.Ã‚Â  For good or bad, everyone I spoke to had already
gotten a glimpse of my online persona through my blog, and the entire
interview was a series of very friendly and exciting conversations about
open source, linux, apache, php, subversion, etc, etc.Ã‚Â  I want to
believe that it went well for I have been invited for a follow-up
interview some time next week.Ã‚Â  The opportunity has great potential
for my career as I'm trying to do more open source related work!

Then today, as I return home from my daughter's school, I receive
another interview invitation, this time around at the Cell and Molecular
Biology department at Duke University!!!Ã‚Â  This is very exciting news
for I feel like I'd be a good fit for the position as I hold a
bachelor's degree in biochemistry from Pace University.Ã‚Â  So I'll be
around the Duke West Campus this September 13th and I guess at the
[TriLug](http://www.trilug.org/)\'s meeting on the 14th, to be held at
RedHat HQ [map and
directions](http://www.redhat.com/about/contact/ww/americas/raleigh.html)

For the first time in the last 2 weeks, I just may be able to sleep in
peace tonight.
