---

date: 2006-10-17
slug: |
  six-years
tags:
 - english
title: Six Years
---

Yesterday was my 6th wedding anniversary... Elizabeth and I lived
together for almost 2 years first... to get to know each other... to
experience what married life would be like before actually doing it.
After only 3 months I just knew she was the one and I was destined to
spend the rest of my life with her... grow old with her... The problem
was that I didn't make enough to support the both of us... so we lived
together, sharing a 3 bedroom apartment with some folks...

Around September 2000 I was offered a great job with an up and coming
pharmaceutical company, paying me almost 2.5 times what I was getting
paid. I didn't wait too long and October 16th, 2000 Elizabeth and I
became one!

Six years have passed and we are still happy together. She has stood
behind every single decision I have made, and she just **gets** me! How
else can you explain how a couple who shared no interests managed to get
married? She is the opposite of everything I am! When I'm hot, she's
cold... I like beer, she likes water... I love hockey, she won't stand
sports... I love working around computers, she is happy with her tv...
Without a doubt, we are a very odd couple! :)

Our story has brought us to a new chapter in our adventure, where we've
moved 500 miles South of where we both grew up, with
an-almost-5-year-old daughter named Yv (pronounced Evie) and another
girl who shall be born mid February 2007.

We've had our ups and downs but we have managed to stay together... My
love for her gets stronger every day and I can absolutely say I'm still
very much in love with that girl who was so important in the most dark
period of my life! So far I really like where this story is headed, so
I'll keep reading it... ;)
