---

date: 2007-01-01
slug: |
  2006-in-pictures
tags:
 - rpath, life, 206, books, rhce, billreminder, ubuntu, linux world,
  united nations
title: 2006 in Pictures!
---

Well, after going almost 2 weeks with a very nasty cold, I got better
just in time for the new year! This has proven to be a rather eventfull
year for me and my family, as I travelled and met more new people than
in the previous 5 years combined! Since everyone seems to be posting
about what they've accomplished throught the year 2006, here's my
photographic attempt.

**January 2006**

[![Reading
Material](http://farm1.static.flickr.com/19/93889750_91ed3d2dd1.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/25563799@N00/93889750/)

Armed with a bunch of new books, I set out to start the year by teaching
myself some python, and concentrating on my (Ubuntu related) work as a
translator. I also kept reading about history. Unfortunately, teaching
myself python while spending over 3 hours commuting to/from work in the
car, and working under the steril environment of a government job was
harder than I expected. However, my work with the Brazilian Translation
Team really took off, eventually landing me the leadership role.

**February 2006**

[![RHCE](http://farm1.static.flickr.com/37/107602760_cc8a44b32c.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/25563799@N00/107602760/)

In February I took (and passed) the Red Hat Certified Engineer
certification, up in Boston. Managed to spend some time with my friend
Vinny, but since he was busy with work, I stayed in my room and tried to
concentrate in my own things. Granted I never took the Microsoft
certification tests, but from what I've heard, the RHCE separates the
little boys from grown men! ;)

**March 2006**

[![Wow! Got a bunch of Ubuntu Linux
stuff](http://farm1.static.flickr.com/54/113564843_1c4856b718_o.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/25563799@N00/113564843/)

Life was tough for my family and I. The long hours and crazy schedule
was taking its toll on all of us, including my then 4 year-old daughter.
Work was exciting at all and it felt like a scene from "The Wall". I
longed for more exciting things... Linux related... The arrival of the
package above, my Ubuntu kit for the upcoming Linux World Expo in Boston
was the highlight for the month.

**April 2006**

[![Linux World Expo
2006](http://farm1.static.flickr.com/43/122845370_b985292291_o.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/25563799@N00/122845370/)

Linux World Expo!!! What a blast!!! I have always been to this event
back when it used to be held at the Javis Center, in New York. When they
stopped hosting it in NY, I went to Boston, always dragging my friend
Vinny with me. This year I told him it would be different, for I would
be participating not as a espectator, but actually representing Ubuntu
Linux! I could go on and on about the wonderfull experience and all the
nice people and things that happened during those 4 days! My only
disappointment was when trying to get someone to help me "man" the
booth. Unfortunately, none of my "open source loving" friends could make
it, even when I offered to pay for the hotel. Vinny and Kelvin, both
hard core windows users who had never really used Linux, took some time
to land me a hand, and were quick to learn how to answer all of the
questions the visitors threw at them. Obviously, I was taking their
questions as well, but it was fun!

How do you top it off??? In April my wife, daughter and I were blessed
when we learned that we were expecting our second child! ;)

**May 2006**

[![Trenton Computer
Festival](http://farm1.static.flickr.com/56/133925050_946401b171.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/25563799@N00/133925050/)

Fresh from Linux World, I was invited to give a talk at the Trenton
Computer Fair. Due to some misunderstandings from both parties, I was
unable to give the talk but set up a table with some Open Source goodies
(books I received from Oreilly, Apex, Willey, and off course Ubuntu CDs)
and answered questions from the much smaller crowd who ventured out in
the rainy day. This time around I was helped by the newly "converted"
Brian, Roberto, e Tarik (not in the picture).

**June 2006**

[![BillReminder](http://farm1.static.flickr.com/46/147052054_6339566675.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/25563799@N00/147052054/)

I turned 32 and got back to the same routine. Since my python learning
wasn't going anywhere, I decided to do some work with Mono so not to
lose touch. Oh, how I longered to do more Linux related (paid) work.

**July 2006**

[![TabletPC, iPod Nano, and Ubuntu
Dapper](http://farm1.static.flickr.com/72/164405003_8e6d579a3e.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/25563799@N00/164405003/)

Managed to get my hands on a TabletPC and spend quite some time testing
the living hell out of it with Ubuntu. I think that is when my interest
for computer accessability started. Unfortunately, the TabletPC was only
a loan and I was sad to see it go back.

[![Amazing
Race](http://farm1.static.flickr.com/69/194104586_007ea9c25d_o.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/25563799@N00/194104586/)

The Brazilian Translators Team was furiously working on the
translations, and we managed to cover a lot of ground in very little
time. My hard work paid off too, and I was officially appointed as their
leader. We held several online classes and managed to attract a good
number of volunteers, some of them eventually becoming part of the team.
The team has grown smaller since then, but our excitement hasn't!

**August 2007**

[![In front of the
UN](http://farm1.static.flickr.com/84/229440210_c668529c98.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/25563799@N00/229440210/)

Wouldn't you know that I got a chance to go to the United Nations and
represent Ubuntu Linux??? Granted I had a very tiny role during that
symposium, but with my new friend Nathan I managed to give a rather
heartfull (maybe even embarassing) speech in front of several world
government representatives, pleading that we give open source a chance!
Imagine being able to offer people all over the world an opportunity to
taste a little bit of bleeding edge technology without any nasty
proprietary license?

I also managed to get back to my plan of learning python and helped
Raphael ProenÃƒÂ§a get his project, APTonCD off the ground. I quickly
scouted some new talent and managed to bring Laudeci Oliveira into the
mix, one of the most exciting and clever programmers I have met!

**September 2006**

Fortunately (yes, fortunately) my work assignment was cancelled and I
found myself unemployed and looking. Why fortunately? Because I was not
happy where I was... mu whole family wasn't... Sometimes, a good swift
ol' kick in the ass is all you really need to make a move in your life!
The month of Semptember was filled with many moments of introspection,
tough decisions, and lots and lots of travelling for interviews in New
Jersey and North Carolina. It was only after I actually took up
temporary residency in Chapel Hill with my sister that I started to get
interviews in NC. In the end I had to decide between staying in NJ
working for a Linux-friendly company or officially move my family to NC
and start a career as a python programmer for a rather exciting company
in Raleigh with lots of growth potential (but a significant pay cut). I
didn't think twice and took the job in NC!

**October 2006**

[![BrOffice running on Foresight
Linux](http://farm1.static.flickr.com/92/268734323_fc5248714f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/25563799@N00/268734323/)

I started work at rPath on October 2, the same day I learned that my
application for sponsorship for the Ubuntu Developer Summit was
accepted! Life was good! I knew I had a lot of ground to cover as a web
python developer, so I started the (still active) process of porting
over my client side, visual basic / C\# / PL/SQL skills. The work
environment is absolutely great and I definitely get my daily dose of
challenges and geekness! At work I run Foresight Linux and am constantly
being picked on for having my Ubuntu coffee mug with me, but it is all
for laughs. :) We have a lot of good talent and I hope to learn a lot
from them and help the company grow!

**November 2006**

[![Mark and
I](http://farm1.static.flickr.com/108/295937058_33d80b36bf.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/25563799@N00/295937058/)

The highlight of my open source life: Ubuntu Developer Summit, in
Mountain View, California! It is very hard to express how fortunate I
was to be able to attend this event and take part of the decisions that
will shape the Ubuntu Community in the near future! I got to meet a
great number of interesting and passionate people, and it felt great to
share my ideas with them. I had a lot of fun talking to the Ubuntu
Studio guys (Cory, Antoinne, and Joe), Mark van Deborre, Joey Stanford,
Evan, the Launchpad (Rodrigo, Guilherme) and Rosetta (Carlos and Danilo)
guys, Ronald, Jorge Castro, Seveas, and many more. I also had the
opportunity to talk to Jono about several things related to the
Brazilian Team, and I believe it was very helpfull. Also, Leslie made us
all feel very welcome at the Googleplex and I am very gratefull for our
bus driver Ed, who made our trips to/from our hotel a whole lot more
interesting with his jokes. :)

[![Mark, Mirco, and
I](http://farm1.static.flickr.com/106/295936055_2547de6ca8.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/25563799@N00/295936055/)

The farewell dinner was a great way to cap off the event, and the open
bar definitelly helped bring out the best of us! :)

**December 2006**

My daughter turned 5!!! It feels like it was only yesterday that I was
changing her diapers!!! She is without a doubt that highlight of my
life! Since my company closed down the last week of the year, I was able
to spend some quality time with her and my wife. Spent Christmas in New
Jersey with my whole family but drove back home the very next day for a
total of 24 hours of driving (both ways) due to the horrible traffic and
weather!!!

I left out a few events on purpose for a I intend to talk about them in
a different post. Overall, 2006 marked a great turning point in my life
and future aspirations... but more about that later on... ;)
