---

date: 2007-01-05
slug: |
  gnome-ubuntu-and-samba
tags:
 - english
title: Gnome, Ubuntu, and Samba
---

Well, I guess the [cat is out of the
bag](http://blogs.gnome.org/view/lucasr/2007/01/05/0), so I might as
well talk a bit about it. ;)

Last November I sent out an email to pretty much every major Brazilian
localization team (including [Gnome](http://live.gnome.org/GnomeBR/),
[KDE](http://twiki.softwarelivre.org/bin/view/KdeBR), XFCE,
[Mozilla](http://www.mozilla.org.br/),
[OpenOffice](http://www.openoffice.org.br/), and the [Linux
Documentation Project](http://br.tldp.org/)), inviting them to a meeting
to discuss how we can all benefit from our individual work. Many replies
later, we decided to hold 2 sessions on the 18Th so to accommodate
everyone's schedules. The
[log](http://wiki.ubuntubrasil.org/TimeDeTraducao/Reuniao20061118) for
the 2 sessions (sorry, Portuguese only) were posted and everyone had a
chance to chime in.

From the very start, I received a very positive feedback from the Gnome
guys, with Leonardo Fontenelle playing an important role in helping me
get in touch with some of the other groups, as well as explaining how
the Gnome group worked. In fact, the Gnome folks were the ones who stuck
around and bought in the idea.

My final plan was to use the [Ubuntu Brazilian translation
team](http://wiki.ubuntubrasil.org/TimeDeTraducao) "power house" to
provide Gnome with direct feedback and bug reporting of translations. I
wanted to make sure that nobody was doing the same job twice, so the
decision was to start with the translation catalogs (.po) straight from
upstream, and have them approved through bugzilla first! Once a package
was completely approved upstream (and by completed I mean 100%
translated), the Ubuntu Team is then responsible for uploading it back
to Ubuntu, via Rosetta. The reason why we would do that is so to make
the translations final and work out any possible discrepancy that may
come up. Another advantage is that we can then have these translations
available to people who make use of the monthly language-pack deployment
mechanism. If I understand correctly, Ubuntu does bring in translations
from upstream, but they do not go in as final and require (manual)
intervention from us. Maybe someone from Rosetta could chime on this?

Another decision was to make sure we all use the same vocabulary and
standards. The decision was to make use of the existing vocabulary from
the Linux Documentation Project Brazil (LDP-BR), and improve it by
adding our own collected vocabulary. So far this has working out really
well, but we still need to get the LDP-BR guys to completely commit to
it.

So far I have only deployed 4-5 people to work on this project, to make
sure we give people a chance to learn the new processes, as well as give
the Gnome guys a chance to prepare themselves for the major bug
reporting flood that is coming their way! ;) Obviously, since we still
don't have the same type of commitment from the other localization teams
(KDE/XFCE/Mozilla/OpenOffice guys!!! Where are you???), we still need
people to take care of the other packages.

I'm glad to report that as our first goal, the Gnome and Ubuntu teams
want to deliver all Gnome desktop applications (applications list is
available [here](http://progress.gnome.org/languages/pt_BR/gnome-2-18))
**completely translated** by early February, just in time for 2.18!!! We
will then shift gears, as I will propose a bolder project and try to get
Gnome (not just the desktop applications) **completely translated** by
the end of 2007!

I hope this post will attract more volunteers and other localization
teams, as we all embrace this major effort to make the Brazilian Open
source experience more pleasant for all.
