---

date: 2007-02-22
slug: |
  zzzzzzzz
tags:
 - english
title: zzzzZZZZ\...
---

I'm back home, together with my wife and daughters. The two days spent
in the hospital helped them (wife and baby) to recharge a bit their
energies, and gave me some time to spend with my older daughter.

Many were the comments and emails I received during this period, all
congratulating us and wishing us well. I even received a phone call from
Brazil (thanks a million Kurt Kraut)! In the name of my (now slightly
bigger) family I thank each and everyone of you for the kind words!

My company was kind enough to let me take 5 days off from work so I
could be with "the girls," and boy have they been helpful! Our first day
at home was a bit rough since Kate cried every 30 minutes. It was only
today, right after I drove Yv to school that I was able to take a 2 hour
nap. By my calculations, I now have only 8 more to make up for... ;)

[![Finally at
home](http://farm1.static.flickr.com/144/398062346_05f0cc4316_o.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/25563799@N00/398062346/)

Things are shaping up at home, and if I had any concerns about how Yv
would behave now that she has a little sister, now I have none. Every
day, right before she goes to school, she insists in giving her little
sister a kiss. ;)

The temperature here in North Carolina has gone up a bit, compared to
New York and New Jersey, and with today's 71Â F we decided to go out and
visit (my first time) [Duke University](http://www.duke.edu/)\'s
[Chapel](http://www.chapel.duke.edu/home/). The Duke campus is
absolutely wonderful and it gives you this feeling of the vast amount of
knowledge and history that just seeps from its walls! I couldn't help
but fantasize about the day my daughters will be attending either Duke
or [UNC](http://www.unc.edu/).

[![Duke
Chapel](http://farm1.static.flickr.com/135/398084338_3ad9a43204.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/25563799@N00/398084338/)

With Spring just around the corner, I'm sure we will be going on more
small trips and taking a whole lot more pictures. Spring is a very
interesting season, specially having gone through a few months of
Winter. It only takes a few positive degrees to get people to come out
and show off their "Winter tan," trying to enjoy every second of warmth
given off by the yet pale sun. For my next trip, I'm going for the
second time to [Duke Gardens](http://www.hr.duke.edu/dukegardens/). This
place is so enchanting that not even the Hanging Gardens of Babylon
would come close. This time around I will bring my real camera... so no
more cel phone pictures. :)
