---

date: 2007-04-07
slug: |
  watching-the-wheels-go-round-and-round
tags:
 - english
title: Watching the wheels go \'round and \'round
---

This is going to be a very emotional post for me... Emotional for a good
reason, but with a "dash" of nostalgia. Ever since we released **Ubuntu
Edgy** I made the decision of giving the leadership for the [Brazilian
Translation Team](https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-pt-br) to someone
else... not because I had lost interest in this task, but because after
over 1 year in this position, it is the right and just decision to let
someone else get the same opportunity. During these 18 months I have
participared in the team, I had the priviledge to watch a great number
of people grow... people who started out as volunteers, just like me,
became members, and best of all, became personal friends.

The task of selecting my own successor wasn't very easy for me, since
our team is made up of quite a few capable individuals of filling this
position... but since only 1 person can be the next leader, I spent a
whole week pondering on this subject... and finally made up my mind,
choosing my good friend [AndrÃƒÂ©
Noel](https://launchpad.net/~andrenoel)! As we have always made
decisions as a team, my decision was heavily based on the conversations
I had with AndrÃƒÂ© and [FÃƒÂ¡bio](https://launchpad.net/~deb-user-ba),
both administrators of the team, FÃƒÂ¡bio being the one who's been
working with me from almost the very start.

The nostalgia came due to the 18 months of my life that I put into this
journey. I came to know/meet many people, and many were the hours that
we spent together sharing the same objective of improving the Brazilian
translations of open source software. Many were the hours of fun, and
eventually I came to really know a lot of these people, some of them as
close as if we were friends from childhood! Among this bunch I just have
to mention **FÃƒÂ¡bio**, for all the hard work, sweat, and dedication
he's poured into the Brazilian Ubuntu community... and **Thiago Ayub**,
who even with his Stallman-like way of being, was fundamental in filling
my days with great advices, great stories, and much needed laughter
through the cold cold New Jersey nights via Skype... I also have to
mention the critics and vicious comments I had to face, many times by
myself... These I must thank because they played a major role during
these last 18 months, since it was due to their criticism and comments
that I was able to gather strength and energy to continue my work,
specially during those days when I got home late and still had many
other tasks to finish before sitting completely exausted in front of the
computer, often past mid-night...

This last Thursday, in front of the members for the newly created
[Ubuntu Brazilian Council](https://launchpad.net/~conselhobrasil), and
with the administrators for the Translation Team by my side, I
officially announced my choice. I'm glad to say that AndrÃƒÂ© Noel was
welcomed by both parties and I'll be officially giving him the
leadership this **19th of April**.

What does all of this mean to my future with the community? This means
that I'll still be involved with the translations (now as a member)
effort, but will also be exploring new ways to bring open source
software and philosophy to those who haven't experienced it yet! During
the next couple of months I'll be working closely with AndrÃƒÂ© so to
make the transition as smooth as possible, though I am very sure he'll
do just fine. I will also be working with the Brazilian Council,
organizing and guiding the enourmous Brazilian Ubuntu community!

So here's the piece of news that left me happy and nostalgic at the same
time. :)
