---

date: 2007-04-11
slug: |
  texto-livre-for-all
tags:
 - english
title: Texto Livre for All
---

When I first heard of the project [Texto
Livre](http://www.textolivre.org/), the very first thing that went
through my mind was how to use it to improve (and even speed up) the
documentation process for the Brazilian
[GNOME](http://live.gnome.org/GnomeBR/Traducao) and
[Ubuntu](https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-pt-br) projects!

**Texto Livre** is a support group with the objective of offering
linguistic support for the documentation of open source software, as
well as introduce university-level students to to open source as a tool
for research

Though I don't yet know all the details, the ideia is to create a
ticketing system where other projects would fill out a support ticket,
specifying what needs to be documented or translated. These tickets
would then be assigned to a group (this could possibly be the students
of a class) and periodical notifications would be emailed to the
responsible parties, with detailed information about the progress of
your "issue". Right now, the detailed explanation for this process can
be read
[here](http://www.semiofon.org/modules/sections/index.php?op=viewarticle&artid=6)
(portuguese only for now as far as I could see).

Using the Brazilian GNOME project as an example, the
[statistics](http://l10n.gnome.org/languages/pt_BR) for the current
status of translation for the packages installed by default on any
GNU/Linux distro show us that only 17% has been translated. Since this
work is performed by volunteers in their free time, it is nearly
impossible to maintain a stable and continuos workflow. That is when
Texto Livre comes into the picture!

Imagine several university-level students working on these documents
fulltime as part of their curriculum!!!

In any case, if you happen to be in [Porto
Alegre](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Porto_Alegre) during this year's
[FISL](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fisl) event, take some time to talk
to the guys from the Texto Livre project, as well as meet the
representatives of the many different GNU/Linux distros that will be
present, so you can learn a bit more about open source and its benefits!
