---

date: 2007-04-18
slug: |
  taking-gcompris-for-a-spin
tags:
 - english
title: Taking GCompris for a spin
---

Yesterday I managed to package GCompris 8.3 BETA 3-2 and successfuly run
it at home. Packaging it was a bit tricky due to a couple of bugs I
encountered along the way, but luckly **bdoin** was around \#gcompris to
confirm/deny my assumptions.

[![Gcompris 8.3 Beta
3.2](http://farm1.static.flickr.com/232/463332940_2789880c5d.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/25563799@N00/463332940/)

The main reason for me doing this was so that Yv, my oldest, could spend
some time in front of the computer doing something educational. I was
extremelly surprised with the amount of different games available and
the very broad range of levels included. Gcompris comes bundled with
games for all ages and it is guaranted to score big with the kids,
including the big kid in you! :)

[![Yv playing with
GCompris](http://farm1.static.flickr.com/190/464390670_58b9139db1.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/25563799@N00/464390670/)

Throughout the entire time you play in Gcompris, you're accompanied by a
great selection of soothing classical music, and even some of the games,
such as the first "jigsaw" puzzle included paintings from famous
painters such as Renoir, Monet, etc.

One of the first games Yv played was this game where the program spoke
the name of a letter, and you had to click on the corresponding block
containing that letter. Was I pleasantly surprised to hear Gcompris
speaking "fluent" Brazilian Portuguese!!! Though Yv can speak
Portuguese, she does not know the alphabet and such, and I had to change
the idiom to English in the configuration menu. But now she **can**
learn the alphabet using Gcompris as her tutor! :)

Overall, I am very pleased with the interface and selection of games. My
hats off to everyone involved in the project, specially for those who
took their time to record (voice) the messages in my mother tongue! This
is a project that I will most definitely find time to volunteer my free
time!

**Note:** Close to the end of this post, I met **yemanja** hanging out
on \#gcompris. Descendent of Brazilians living in France, she explained
to me the meaning of the word Gcompris. G is a playfull way to say J'ai,
and compris means to understand. In other words, JÃ‚Â´ai compris. :)
