---

date: 2007-05-15
slug: |
  educational-gcompris-live-cd
tags:
 - english
title: Educational GCompris Live CD
---

Shortly after receiving a comment on my
[other](http://blog.ogmaciel.com) blog (Brazilian Portuguese only) from
**Armando Silva** about an educational Live CD, my curiosity got the
best of me and I just had to check it out.

The first thing I did was point my browser to the [Brazilian
GCompris](http://www.gcompris-br.org/) site and I was imediately
impressed by their stated objectives of promoting the translation and
documentation of education software in Brazil

A few more paragraphs later I found out that **Armando Silva** himself
was responsible for this Live CD, based on Knoppix with components from
Kanotix e Sidux.Ã‚Â  The CD is filled with educational applications,
such as:

-   Gcompris 8.3 beta3
-   Some of the KDE-Edu applications
-   Childsplay
-   TuxMath
-   TuxType

The CD also has other windows managers such as KDE, Enlightenment and
Fluxbox, as well as aMSN, Subversion, Gaim, Iceweasel (Firefox) in 50
languages, support for a great number of languages and sports the kernel
2.6.20-4 compiled for the i386 with many additional drivers.

Salivating in antecipation, I opened up my VirtualBox amd created a new
partition and image with 256 MB of RAM.

[![Boot up screen for the Educational GCompris Live
CD](http://farm1.static.flickr.com/228/498873970_878ab0e536.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/25563799@N00/498873970/)

I was very impressed with the options: KDE, Enlightenment 17 and
Fluxbox, all Live! I didn't hesitate and chose Enlightenment. The boot
process is all animated with a very pleasant voice explaining what was
being done, while a funny looking penguin waddled across the screen.

[![Educational GCompris Live CD with
Enlightenment](http://farm1.static.flickr.com/198/498920733_79d001a051.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/25563799@N00/498920733/)

The other cool thing was the variety of applications available, and even
running it inside VirtualBox with a meager 256 MB of RAM, I had no
problems running any of the games... and boy, have they got educational
games!!!

[![Simon
says\...](http://farm1.static.flickr.com/224/498919797_50ed014ddd.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/25563799@N00/498919797/)

I played with at least 5 games (and the person who is really going to
test drive it is Yv, my oldest, who was fast asleep when I decided to do
this) and I laughed my self silly playing the game above, a game that
was fairly popular many decades ago in Brazil.Ã‚Â  I also remembered an
old Atari game (which unfortunately I don't remember the name...
something raider?) where you had to stop lightening bolts from touching
down the ground... But in this game, you had mathematical questions
scrolling down the screen and you had to stop them by typing the correct
solution.

[![Solve the mathematical
problems](http://farm1.static.flickr.com/203/498871508_9c5f873b95.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/25563799@N00/498871508/)

There was also a Microsoft Paint clone that looked very interesting. I
then tried a program that teaches you how to type.Ã‚Â  The game has
several levels but I only tried the first one, where you have to help
Tux eat as many fishes by typing the corresponding letter falling down
the screen.

[![Typing
game](http://farm1.static.flickr.com/212/498871086_aec8cafb25.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/25563799@N00/498871086/)

After a little while I decided to stop my exploratio and wait until
tomorrow so Yv has a chance to find out new stuff too. I can already see
her face brighten with excitement when she sees some of this stuff!

Now, a little bit of trivia for you:Ã‚Â  Does anyone know the meaning of
the picture below, showing off KGeography?

[![A little bit of
geography](http://farm1.static.flickr.com/195/498917511_349cba0db3.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/25563799@N00/498917511/)

Overall, I was extremelly pleased with this initiative, and I urge those
with kids or have little brothers, sisters, nephews, nieces, and want to
support a great open source project, download your
[copy](http://sourceforge.net/project/downloading.php?group_id=24002&use_mirror=jaist&filename=ACADEMIA4.ISO&51393535)
today! And if you speak Portuguese or just want to find out how you can
help out, contact the guys behind [GCompris
Brasil](http://gcompris-br.org/) (I'll be glad to help out if you have
any trouble with the language barrier) and check out how to help them!
