---

date: 2007-05-24
slug: |
  america-or-america
tags:
 - english
title: America or America?
---

First of all I want to thank every and each one of you who took the time
to drop me a line about my recent citizenship. I was honestly very
touched by your kind words and am looking forward to the upcoming
ellection when I will be able to exercise my voting rights for the first
time!

I just took some time off from work to respond to a few comments left on
my blog about my use of the word America as a synonim for the country
United States of America. First off, I mean no disrespect to anyone from
the **continent** America. For better or worse, even when I was a young
child in Brazil, I had always understood that America stood for The
United States. No one has called Brazil, for instance, anything else but
Brazil (unless you want to take a trip back in history, when it was
named first as an island, and then as a "piece of land"). Taking a quick
peek at [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/America) I noticed
that, though the term America is used to define the continent, it has
also been used in many songs, videos, poems, etc in the same manner I
used.

So, for those who may have gotten a bit upset about my usage of the word
America, please accept my appologies, for it was not my intention to
offend anyone. But I am very certain that someone from Chile wouldn't
want anyone calling their country America. Heck, I know that no
Brazilian would want that either! So let us all just drop this issue
aside, for no matter what happens, the United States will always be
known as America.

Update:Ã‚Â  I have disabled the comments on this post.Ã‚Â  This is a
subject that will get some people inflamed... and I understand them
somewhat.Ã‚Â  I too lived outside the United States, and contrary to
what some people may think, I have a very open mind.Ã‚Â  The whole world
has called the Unites States as America.Ã‚Â  No, we don't think we're
more important than anyone...
