---

date: 2007-06-05
slug: |
  keeping-organized-with-tasks-and-dates
tags:
 - english
title: Keeping organized with Tasks and Dates
---

After talking to a few other guys about
[Openbox](http://icculus.org/openbox/index.php/Main_Page) and what other
applications one can use to get the best experience from a blazing fast
windows manager, I remembered the other two programs I use to keep
myself organized, both at home and at work: **Dates** and **Tasks**.

[Tasks](http://pimlico-project.org/tasks.html) is basically a ToDo list
that allows me to easily and quickly keep track of my weekly tasks,
prioritizing each item as I see fit. It doesn't have a lot of bells and
whistles and I believe that is one of the reasons I chose it. If I were
to make a few suggestions, I'd add tooltips to each item, as well as the
ability to launch a web page if items have an URL assigned to it.

Its counter-part is [Dates](http://pimlico-project.org/dates.html), a
scheduling tool for the desktop. It too is faily simple to use and it
allows me to keep track of meetings and important events. Once again, if
I were to make a constructive comment, it would be too add a
notification/reminder service to it, in case you're off doing something
else... like watching the replay of Milan and Liverpool for instance. :)

[![screenshot](http://farm2.static.flickr.com/1194/530846740_a6356392d6.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photo_zoom.gne?id=530846740&size=o)

It would also be nice to sync up these two programs, and I think that is
what [Sync](http://pimlico-project.org/sync.html) will do.

By the way, if you're wondering like [LaserJock](http://laserjock.us/)
what is the panel bar I'm using (bottom of the screen), that is
[PyPanel](http://pypanel.sourceforge.net/). The Openbox theme is [Ubuntu
Studio](http://www.box-look.org/content/show.php/ubuntustudio?content=59671)
and the wallpaper is from DevianArt (I couldn't find it to link). And
this post was written using [Drivel](http://www.dropline.net/drivel/).
;)
