---

date: 2007-06-08
slug: |
  my-own-faq
tags:
 - english
title: My own F.A.Q.
---

It is 04:18 EST and instead of being in bed, I'm in front of the
computer. Due to a major sore throat, I've been struggling to sleep
since 22:00 of last night... and so far the sore throat has shown no
sign of retreat. Tired of laying awake in bed, I figured I'd do
something else...

Since it is my birthday today, and I'm still sleep deprived, I came up
with the "great idea" of writing my own **F.A.Q.**! hehehe For those
questions I have been asked one too many times. :)

**Q**: Is Og your real name? What kind of name is it? **A**: Yes... some
people think my name is short for something else (and I always joke
around, telling them that it stands for **O' Greatness** or **Original
Gangster**), but it isn't. My parents named me after the writer [Og
Mandino](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Og_Mandino), whose books had
really impressed my mom.

**Q**: Why are you always talking about Brazil? **A**: Well, that one is
simple to answer. I was born there.

**Q**: Every time I see a picture of you, you're on crutches. What
happened? **A**: I was born with [Arthrogryposis Multiplex Congenita, a
rare congenital disorder that causes multiple joint
contractures](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arthrogryposis). When I was
born, my limbs were all folded into themselves, pretty much like the
symbol "&". Through my first 6-7 years I went through several corrective
surgeries, but my doctors didn't give any hope to my parents. My mom
never believed them and travelled the entire country looking for a
better treatment. At age of 7 I was given my very first pair of
crutches, which my dad had made for me out of some pieces of wood we had
around the house and **broom sticks**! You should have seen the look at
my doctor's face when my mom brought me back into their office, doing my
best to "parade" with my newly found "walking skills". ;)

**Q**: What do you do in the Open Source community? Are you one of those
super hackers? **A**: Far from it! Most of my collaboration has been as
a translator for the Brazilian Portuguese language. This work eventually
led me to become the leader for the [Ubuntu Brazilian Portuguese
Translators](https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-pt-br) team for 18
months, position now held by my good friend [AndrÃƒÂ©
Noel](http://andrenoel.com.br/).

**Q**: What GNU/Linux distribution do you currently use? **A**: I've
been running [Foresight Linux](http://www.foresightlinux.org/) for the
last 5 months now. There are a great deal of great distributions out
there, and even though I had been an [Ubuntu](http://www.ubuntu.com)
user for quite some time, I chose the one that would not only allow me
to have a solid desktop experience, but allow me to do my work as well.

**Q**: So what GNU/Linux distribution do you recommend to me? **A**:
That will depend on your needs. Since I'm a firm believer that GNU/Linux
== Freedom, it would be extremelly hypocrite of me to tell anyone what
to use! My initial answer will always be "Use what best fits your
needs!" As I had mentioned before, there are several great ditributions
out there, each with its strengths and weaknesses. If you afford to try
a few, I'd suggest you give it a try.

**Q**: What have you been working on? **A**: Lately, my personal life
has taken a solid hold of me, and when I'm not doing my paid work, I'm
out and about, enjoying the North Carolina weather with my family. I'm
also working with the upstream translation teams for GNOME and KDE and
writing a graphical interface for Foresight's package management system.
This Summer I want to find some time to go fishing and read a few books.

Well, I guess I must have bored you all by now so I'll stop. If you've
made through here and feel inclined to ask me anything else, feel free.
:)
