---

date: 2007-06-16
slug: |
  the-unbearable-lightness-of-being
tags:
 - english
title: The Unbearable Lightness of Being
---

My daughter Yv had submitted a drawing about a month ago to a contest
sponsored by a local magazine called [Carolina
Parent](http://www.carolinaparent.com/). The contest, "**TV-Turnoff
Week**", urged kids to unplug from their televisions and spend some more
time outdoors!

[![Contest](http://farm2.static.flickr.com/1132/556718113_079ff4a0fd.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/25563799@N00/556718113/)

Yesterday my wife showed me the drawings that were selected, and
unfortunately Yv's was not among them. With tearful eyes, I was able to
follow the avalanche of emotions going through her mind... Obviously,
frustration and disappointment are not new emotions to me, but seeing it
happening to someone still so innocent and unexperienced made me think
really hard. Is it possible that after banging your head on the wall so
many times have taught us to "camufflage" our emotions so people can't
see how fragile we are?

A few words of encouragement and a tissue later, she was already
thinking about her next drawing for the next contest. It made me think
about those days of my childhood, when life got so complicated that only
my mother's lap could put me at ease. Those days when my favorite
sanctuary was my room, surrounded by my **Monteiro Lobato** (Brazilian
author) and **Jules Verne** books, and my **Fort Apache** (old Western
game set... think Lego)!

I took a good look at the winning drawings and couldn't help but think
Yv's was much better! :)
