---

date: 2007-07-17
slug: |
  mia-pow
tags:
 - rpath
title: MIA / POW
---

That is, Missing In Action / Prisoner Of **WORK**! Here at
[rPath](http://www.rpath.com/corp/) we work based on iteration periods
that could vary between 4 - 6 weeks. During these periods, we are all
assigned (or loaded as we say) several hours of issues to work on plus
whatever may come up during the course of the iteration. Decided to
tackle all my issues without any disturbance, I took the plunge and have
completely immersed myself in lots of python, javascript, and you name
it! My participation on IRC channels other that the ones used internally
drop down to close to zero, and the same goes for emails and jabber!
Needless to say, whatever free moment I had was spent with my family and
watching **Brazil** win the **Copa America**! Occasionally, while
flipping through a magazine or a book, I'd fire up the **N800** and play
with it for a while. In one of these occasions, I uploaded my own
mock-up code for the [Tasks](http://pimlico-project.org/tasks.html)
application. As I already had it (Tasks) installed and since my code was
written in Python, I figured it would just run in the N800.

Here you can see the real Tasks app:

[![Tasks running on the
N800](http://farm2.static.flickr.com/1328/838881864_39f72b9083.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/ogmaciel/838881864/)

Sure enough, without making any code change, I was able to run my own
code as shown below:

[![My
hacked](http://farm2.static.flickr.com/1395/838881844_9b4b1cacfb.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/ogmaciel/838881844/)

Oh, the possibilities!!! Unfortunately that was the last time I touched
it (due to the reasons already mentioned above), but am very much
itching to turn my mock-up into a full blown app / example! I also want
to port my pet project
[BillReminder](http://billreminder.sourceforge.net/) to it.

This Friday I'm flying to NYC to spend my dad's birthday with the whole
family. I'll be there until Tuesday, when I fly to Orlando to bring Yv
and Kate to Disney! I very much doubt I'll have a chance to do any
coding, but the N800 will be along... just in case... ;)
