---

date: 2007-08-13
slug: |
  aptoncd-on-linux-format-magazine
tags:
 - rpath
title: APTonCD on Linux Format Magazine
---

I was pleasantly surprised to see (as far as I know) the very first
article written about [APTonCD](http://aptoncd.sourceforge.net/) on last
month's issue (issue 95) of [Linux
Format](http://www.linuxformat.co.uk), my favorite Linux magazine!

[![Article about
APTonCD](http://farm2.static.flickr.com/1368/1099191063_0395b9c221.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/ogmaciel/1099191063/)

Back in August (or was it September?) of last year I learned that
**Rafael "CypherBIOS" ProenÃƒÂ§a** had started this project written in
Python that promised to deliver "a tool with a graphical interface which
allows you to create one or more CDs or DVDs (you choose the type of
media) with all of the packages you've downloaded via APT-GET or
APTITUDE, creating a removable repository that you can use on other
computers." Back then I was still tinkering with the idea of porting my
[BillReminder](http://billreminder.sourceforge.net/) from C\# to Python,
just so that I could start learning the language. Rafael seemed eager to
have someone else take a look at his code and generously offered me
commit access to his SVN repository. My first task was to clean up the
code, add some (much needed) comments, and split up the code into
classes, as well as divide the glade files into more organizable
modules. I then proceeded to recruit some more people to help out and
was extremely lucky to have met **Laudeci "Pretto" de Oliveira**, a
developer who was searching for a good reason to take a plunge into the
open source development world! I must say that Laudeci was the missing
piece of the puzzle, and even though several other developers left their
contribution here and there, it was him who fueled up the project and
shifted things into a higher gear! Shortly after I started my job at
rPath and with the birth if my second daughter, my participation in the
project went from developer/supporter to cheerleader! :)

If you're looking for a cool project to get you started in the open
source world and want to learn some cool python skills along the way,
visit their web site and come hang out on \#aptoncd at Freenode. You
will not be disappointed.
