---

date: 2007-08-20
slug: |
  do-i-feel-lucky
tags:
 - english
title: Do I feel lucky?
---

Over the weekend my next door neighbor managed to damage the passenger
side door of my Honda when he parked too close to my car... That
wouldn't be so bad if it wasn't for the fact that it was the **second**
car he's damaged in the last month... also mine! Now, he's an older
professor from UNC who has been very nice and polite ever since we moved
to Chapel Hill, and I let it slide the first **FIVE times** he
scratched/dented my Pacifica... but enough is enough! Since I have
leased these 2 cars, I don't want to have to pay for the damage when the
lease expires!

As I had mentioned before, my neighbor is an older gentleman who has
shown his age many times before, like the times he's left his
apartment's keys outside his own door... and I dutifuly took them back
to him when he arrived... or like the time he dropped his credit card
outside in the parking lot... he was so happy when I returned it to him
that he insisted in buying me a six pack of Becks!

So I decided to knock at his door and politely tell him about the
"accident"... and boy, was I in for a surprise! The old, gentleman whom
I've know until today showed he had some "zest" left in him. He first
denied to doing it but when faced by the paint residue of his car in
mine, he immediately switched off to a defensive stance and told me to
quit with the talk and start doing things "the legal" way! I figured we
could handle this without getting the insurances involved, but he
stormed back to his apartment leaving me with no choice. About 20
minutes later he knocks on my door, seemgly much calmer, and we
proceeded to swap insurance information. Tomorrow I'll be taking the
Pacifica to the shop and will brace for the damage that 2 damaged cars
and a deductible of \$500 per car will cause in my wallet. Hopefully
he'll admit to this and his insurance will pay for it...
