---

date: 2007-09-02
slug: |
  slavery-is-still-well-and-alive-in-small-town-brazil
tags:
 - english
title: Slavery is still well and alive in small town Brazil!
---

I have just watched this
[video](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9-O2iIHXyn0) about the never
ending conflict between Brazilian indigenous natives and the white
farmers from small town Brazil. This is the kind of stuff that is well
known by the entire country, but avoided by most for fear of
retaliation!

Like pretty much anywhere in the Americas, the Brazilian indigenous
population was almost completely massacred and enslaved by the the white
settlers during the colonial times. The few who survived torture,
humiliation, and sub-human living conditions, were shamelessly confined
to live with no assistance and left to slowly vanish from human history.
As a friend noted, even today in the 21st century, the Brazilian natives
are treated worse than animals and are still forced to live under harsh
circumstances.

The video shows how an indigeneous organization, together with members
of the Green Peace and international reporters were temporarily
detained, interrogated, verbally (and nearly physically) threatened, and
eventually expelled from a tiny little town in Brazil. The mob that
surrounded the peace group was primarily made up of local farmers, who
apparently have been taking the land that was allocated to the local
indigeneous group back in 1996. They were probably afraid that by
letting the group see the current living state of the natives, word
would get out and they'd be forced to give the land back.

BACK??? The land belonged to them before anyone set foot there! But that
is subject for another post. If you decide to watch the video (which I
urge you to do even if you don't understand what they're talking about),
pay close attention to a guy wearing a yellow shirt. He is the **mayor**
of the town and clearly in the payroll of the farming organization! He
demands that the group leave town or else... The group is followed every
and each step of the ordeal and needed protection from the police so not
to be linched by the "angry" mob!

An interesting "quote" from the video: "They (native indians) belong to
us! They can't come here and see then without our permission!"

And here I thought that slavery had been abolished already in Brazil!
This is a disgrace and unacceptable! I am extremelly disgusted with
this!

Mr. **Luis InÃƒÂ¡cio Lula da Silva**: As the current elected president
of Brazil, you are **RESPONSIBLE** for the well being and safety of
**EVERY SINGLE CITIZEN** of this great nation! Please don't close your
eyes to these acts of atrocity and abuse! A country that cannot take
care of its own people should not be allowed to be part of any
international organization! How can we proudly claim to have a voice at
the UN when we don't take care of our own?

Utterly shameful!

**UPDATE:** Video now in English, thanks to **Claudio** and
**Sulamita**!
