---

date: 2007-10-08
slug: |
  call-me-first-prize-winner-please
tags:
 - english
title: Call me \"first prize winner\" please
---

Over the weekend we had a Fall Festival in our neighborhood, with tons
of food, drinks, and games for the kids. We stayed for about 2 hours and
just as I was about to leave, Yv (my oldest daughter) decided she wanted
to paint a pumpkin before heading back home. So we stayed a bit longer
and that is when the DJ (yes, there was a DJ as well) announced there
would be a pumpkin painting contest for the kids. All the kids were very
excited and Yv decided to participate too. We waited and waited for the
DJ to collect all the entries but he started some other games and we
thought that this was going to take too long... So I again convince the
girls to leave and as we get close to the car, we hear the DJ calling
all the contestants. Needless to say we ran back to where all the
pumpkins were and placed Yv's along with them.

[![Pumpkin Painting
contest](http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2073/1511589572_a9c3ba9c0c.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/ogmaciel/1511589572/)

The judges only took 1 minute to decide, and sure enough Yv's "master
piece" won the first place! I must say, I wasn't expecting this at all
and we were all very excited for her. As her prize, she won a Wallmart
gift certificate.

So we walked back to the car while Yv kept on telling us how she would
buy us all a small gift and the kinds of gifts she would buy to decorate
her room. So she got in the car and buckled up the pumpkin in the middle
seat! I then gave her my cell so she could call my parents to tell them
about the contest.

[![dsc05311.jpg](http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2199/1506727147_ae2fa35137_o.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/ogmaciel/1506727147/)

That's when she turned to us and asked:

> \"Could you guys call me **first prize winner** from now on?"

Priceless!
