---

date: 2007-10-31
slug: |
  back-from-fosscamp
tags:
 - english
title: Back from FossCamp
---

For those who noticed my sudden disappearance from the web late last
week, I was attending [FossCamp](http://www.fosscamp.org/HowToAttend) in
Boston as a [Foresight Linux](http://www.foresightlinux.org/)
representative as well as representing my own interests in the
localization arena. Unfortunately [Ken](http://ken.vandine.org/) could
not make it and I was left with the daunting task of talking to people
about
[conary](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conary_%28package_manager%29).

My flight was pretty peaceful with a quick stop in NYC where I met up
with my older sister. After grabbing a bite to eat and a couple of cold
ones, we boarded the plane to Boston where we arrived shortly after
17:00. The weather was pretty nasty with the temperature dropping to the
low 40s as we checked in the hotel.

[![My sister and I enjoying some cold
ones](http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2211/1806893718_55d3b741fd_o.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/ogmaciel/1806893718/)

My plan was to grab dinner and then lock myself in the hotel room so I
could work on my presentations (I also wanted to talk about localization
work besides conary). To much of my surprise, the entire area of Revere
lost power for approximately 2 hours and we had no means to stay in the
room or eat at the local restaurant. The solution was order for a pizza
which arrived around 21:00 just as we gained power back at the hotel.
Needless to say, after all the traveling and boredom without power, I
completely collapsed in my bed and woke up the next morning.

[![Session at FossCamp: Vinny, Jono and
I](http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2180/1806043089_4f479ddae1_o.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/ogmaciel/1806043089/)

The trip to the Hilton @ MIT where FossCamp was being held took longer
than we expected, as our cab driver got lost for a good 20 minutos. We
would probably have spent more time driving aimlessly around Cambridge
if it wasn't for my quick phone call to my friend Vinny who bailed us
out by giving is directions to the hotel where he awaited for me. A few
minutes later I was upstairs in the third floor staring at an already
booked grid of events. With no presentation ready and a single empty
slot at 14:30, I quickly signed myself up for a presentation on how to
better integrate upstream translations with Rosetta. At the lobby I also
met up with a bunch of guys I had met before like
[Jorge](http://stompbox.typepad.com/blog/) and
[Mirco](http://macslow.thepimp.net/) among others.

I attended a very interesting session about community building led by
[Jono](http://www.jonobacon.org/) where I brought up a few of my ideas
on how to better integrate translations teams and avoid the duplication
of efforts. Something the also came up quite often was the potential
that [PackageKit](http://www.packagekit.org/) has to integrate the look
and feel of package management across distributions. As a matter of
fact, I pretty much heard PackageKit being tossed around in almost every
session I attended. :)

[![My presentation at
FossCamp](http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2302/1806043403_29acf063fc_o.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/ogmaciel/1806043403/)

Between sessions I managed to get 9 slides together just in time for my
session. Initially I only had 4 people sitting in the room but that
quickly changed and more people joined in. I was really glad to see
[Troy](http://troy-at-kde.livejournal.com/10417.html) Unrau (from the
KDE team) and [Mark Shuttleworth](http://www.markshuttleworth.com/) (do
you know this guy? hehehe) among the attendees, for Troy was very
receptive about my ideas on how to bring upstream translation teams
together and Mark was fairly interested in my ideas on how to improve
Rosetta (and the relationship with upstream). There is an initial thread
[here](https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/launchpad-users/2007-October/002601.html)
and I'll be talking more about this once Halloween is over. I also
managed to talk to Jorge about the creation of a Localization team to
help orient and organize the many translation teams currently working on
Ubuntu translations. My idea is for the creation of a series of
documents and road maps for anyone doing translations and how to make
sure there is an open channel of communication with upstream groups.

[![Jorge Castro and Og
Maciel](http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2030/1806894028_91b7e519a6_o.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/ogmaciel/1806894028/)

The rest of the day was spent between attending sessions and meeting new
and interesting people, like [Leo Franchi, Jeff
Mitchell](http://amarok.kde.org/blog/), and [Robert
Knight](http://kdemonkey.blogspot.com/) from the KDE gang. We talked for
a while and I was very pleased when they invited me to attend the **KDE
4.0 Release Event** to be held at Google's head quarter in Mountain
View, CA next January. I want to take the opportunity to thank you guys
for your attention and invitation, and I am looking forward to working
together with you! It was also a pleasure to finally meet **Adilson
Oliveira** in person (since we had only known each other via irc)!

[![My sister and I enjoying a well deserved
lunch](http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2189/1806044877_0746ea7eaa_o.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/ogmaciel/1806044877/)

The second day was much quieter and I spent most of my time talking to
people and trying to decide whether to give a session about conary or
not. But shortly after the PackageKit session led by Jorge and Troy, I
came to the conclusion that I still needed a bit more preparation to
properly present the material on this great technology. Since I had my
flight back to NC scheduled for 18:35, I took a cab to the airport
around 15:30 and grabbed one last meal before getting on the plane.
Another quick stop at NYC and a 1 hour delay brought me back home around
midnight. Another hour was spent trying to figure out where my luggage
was but by then I was too tired and sleepy to care. I got on my car and
drove home finally falling asleep at around 2:00.

The trip was definitely worth every minute and it was nice to represent
Foresight in the middle of the big heavy weights. If anything, a lot of
people heard of Foresight for the first time over this weekend and some
of them were curious about this 'conary thing'. I very much look forward
to doing this kind of event again in the near future... and next time I
will be ready for the conary talk! :)
