---

date: 2008-01-01
slug: |
  end-of-2007-and-new-beginnings
tags:
 - english
title: End of 2007 and new beginnings
---

It's was the end of the year and my head has been spinning with ideas!
The important thing is to know how to take advantage of this and try to
turn them into reality. That's why I'm planning on using online systems
like [Remember The Milk](http://www.rememberthemilk.com/)(RTM) to help
me get more organized. Since I check my gMail at least a good 50 times a
day, and RTM integrates well with it, I won't have any excuses if I
forget something now.

Since our company closes down during the last week of the year, and it
was Yv's birthday on the 22nd, we packed our stuff and drove to Northern
New Jersey to spend her birthday, as well as the holidays with our
family. The trip took
[forever](http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&hl=en&geocode=&time=&date=&ttype=&q=27514+to+07603&sll=35.2082,-85.89237&sspn=0.01101,0.017381&ie=UTF8&z=7&om=1):
9 hours going there and 11 coming back. But it was worth seeing our
family and see how my two daughters, the only grandchildren from both
sides, are adored by all. :)

[![Yv\'s
birthday](http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2079/2152917112_9d72c87410_o.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/ogmaciel/2152917112/)

Elizabeth and I took advantage of some free time we had (free as in no
kids around since they were with the grandparents) to watch Will Smith's
"[I am legend](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0480249/)". Believe it or
not, but by coincidence we ended up going to the same movie theater in
New Jersey where we first dated 8 years ago! It was pretty amusing to
return to the "starting point", but this time having been married for 7
years and with 2 kids.

I found some time to work on my
[translations](http://bugzilla.gnome.org/describeuser.cgi?login=ogmaciel%40gnome.org)
for the up and coming **GNOME 2.22**. I also worked on my pet project
[BillReminder](http://sourceforge.net/projects/billreminder) together
with **Luiz Armesto**. It's very nice to have someone coding with you,
and Luiz is a great programmer and a good friend! We took some time to
write down the necessary stepsÃ‚Â  for a 0.3 release, which I'm planning
to do on the 15th of February (anyone who can guess the reason will get
a lollipop!)!

[![BillReminder](http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2284/2153135726_6aa0941925.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/ogmaciel/2153135726/)

I packaged a few things for the upcoming version 2.0 of Foresight which
should be released this year. One of these programs was
[TextFlow](http://sourceforge.net/projects/textflow) created by my
friend [Yuri Malheiros](http://ylog.blogspot.com/). This project is
already looking really nice and I intend to keep contributing with it as
much as time allows me. If you're looking for a cool project to get you
started in the world of Python and open source, look no further. Both
[BillReminder](http://sourceforge.net/projects/billreminder) and
[TextFlow](http://sourceforge.net/projects/textflow) projects are
looking for a helping hand. Feel free to contact either one of us.

[![TextFlow](http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2285/2152340049_7c668d34f2.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/ogmaciel/2152340049/)

For 2008 I have many plans, specially in terms of organizing my time and
take better advantage of it.Ã‚Â  The translations for GNOME, XFCE,
Openbox and KDE (this year should see me contributing a whole lot to the
KDE project) are part of my world domination plan, as well as find a way
to finally buy my own place, be that an apartment or a house. I also
hope to be able to visit Brazil since the last time I did it was in
2005, but only time will tell...

I wish you all a great 2008 filled with peace, love and happiness!
**Carpe diem**!
