---

date: 2008-02-09
slug: |
  long-overdue-post-1
tags:
 - english
title: "Long overdue post \\#1"
---

Life has shifted to high gear these last 2 weeks and my time was mostly
spent at work, with my kids, and working on a secret project I can't
talk about yet. In the meantime, lots have happened and I just wanted to
mention the arrival of my **N810** last week! It is shiny! It is cool!
It is very useful! I want to thank the **Maemo** and **Nokia** guys for
this opportunity and hope to deliver some good news about this device
soon!

[![Driving around with the
N810](http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2349/2253630362_a5719c380c_o.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/ogmaciel/2253630362/)

The first thing I did was play with the GPS system, and contrary to what
other people had blogged before, I had no issues syncing it with a
handful of satellites. Even drove around with it and was pretty
impressed! Now, I still haven't gotten used to the keyboard and haven't
figured out how to get the on-screen (I'm assuming it's still there?)
keyboard to work yet. I was also disappointed with the choice of using
mini-SDs. I currently have a SD card but cannot use it... and have no
plans to buy a mini-SD or an adapter for it.

[Vagalume](https://garage.maemo.org/projects/vagalume) rocks and I wish
[Canola](http://openbossa.indt.org.br/canola/) would turn their PnP
(avahi?) support once again so I can listen to my shared music when I'm
out in the deck.

[![Yv and
I](http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2042/2252831769_4499c08ff6_o.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/ogmaciel/2252831769/)

The GPS-enabled camera is pretty slick but apparently between importing
my pictures to F-Spot and exporting them to Flickr, the metadata was
lost... Like I mentioned before, I haven't spent much time fiddling with
it so these may not even be issues.

Anyhow, thanks again for the discount and I'll write some more once I
have played with it a bit more.
