---

date: 2008-04-07
slug: |
  prelude-to-letting-go
tags:
 - english
title: Prelude to letting go?
---

I meant to write this before but got really busy this past week. About 2
weeks ago I sent my oldest daughter Yv to spend her Spring break with my
parents in New York. It was the very first time she went anywhere
without my wife or me, and we were all very nervous about the whole
thing.

[![Yv flying by herself for the first
time](http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3257/2395584815_1cffd4d6fc.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/ogmaciel/2395584815/)

I worked from home that day so I wouldn't have to drive back from work
and then to the airport. Yv was very excited and nervous at the same
time, as she carefully packed her things into her school backpack. As I
was trying to finish a couple of things before I finished my day I
didn't get caught up in the packaging process, but soon after lunch as
we all set at the table it hit me: my daughter was leaving on a trip all
by herself... and she's only 6! Now, I don't mean to sound dramatic, but
those who do know me well know how attached I am to my kids. The
remainder of the afternoon was spent explaining to her how the whole
"flying-by-yourself" process worked and how she would have someone
accompanying her during the flight.

[![Inside the
plane](http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3084/2396418978_c3822d5c09.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/ogmaciel/2396418978/)

Eventually we drove her to the airport... and the closer I got to it,
the heavier my heart felt. We stayed with her at the boarding gate until
she finally boarded the plane... and even as the airplane took off, we
were all there (baby Kate, Elizabeth and I) watching it...

Funny how in less than 10 years my life completely changed and how it is
now affected by my two daughters. Needless to say, the trip was
uneventfull and Yv had a blast with my folks in New York. But could this
experience be just a preview to what is awaiting for me when they one
day go off their own way? I'm definitely not prepared for that.
