---

date: 2008-04-15
slug: |
  moving-on
tags:
 - english
title: Moving on
---

Yesterday I sent out an email to the members of the Ubuntu Brazilian
Council (of which I've been a member for quite some time now) informing
of my decision to step down. For the last few months I have been
extremely busy at work as well as keeping up with the translations for
**GNOME,** **XFCE,** **Ubuntu** and my pet project **BillReminder.** As
if this wasn't enough, Kate, my youngest child is now 14 months old and
walking all over the apartment... and Yv is almost 7 already! :)

Just as I had stepped down from leading the Brazilian translation team
before in order to give someone else a chance to guide the group, I once
again believe it is time to let the "new blood" do their thing.

Looking back when I first started in the community in 2005, I can say
that it was lots of fun being able to pave the way to the newer
generation of free and open source software users in Brazil. It makes me
feel extra proud when I remember that I've accomplished things without
actually living in Brazil during all these years. Sure there were many
bumps along the way, and unfortunately some friendships were tarnished
due to different opinions but I firmly believe I did the best to keep
the community's best interest. I did what leaders are supposed to do:
make decisions... and I have no regrets!

Does that mean I won't be involved with the Ubuntu community? Absolutely
not! Through the years my interest has expanded beyond Ubuntu and today
I am involved in many different communities, distros e projects. I will
still be very much involved with the Ubuntu guys and am looking forward
to the newer crop of administrators and leaders for the Brazilian
community!
