---

date: 2008-06-27
slug: |
  the-things-you-write-when-you-have-the-stomach-flu
tags:
 - english
title: The things you write when you have the stomach flu
---

Been suffering from a nasty stomach flu since yesterday and, needless to
say, it hasn't been fun for me. Spent the entire day trying to get some
rest but was too restless to fall asleep. I don't know how many times I
checked my email or browsed my rss feeds! Out of the many tabs I opened
and closed in my browser, one remained open at all times: a link to a
book called [Essential
SQLAlchemy](http://oreilly.com/catalog/9780596516147/#top)!

Having ventured into the [SQLAlchemy](http://www.sqlalchemy.org/) and
[Elixir](http://elixir.ematia.de/trac/wiki) world a couple of months
back (if you're curious, check out my
[bookie](http://websvn.ogmaciel.com/listing.php?repname=Playground&path=%2Fbookie%2F#_bookie_)
code in my personal svn server), I felt that the documentation was a bit
too "thin" to get me where I wanted to get: replace
[BillReminder](http://code.google.com/p/billreminder)\'s database layer
with a more pythonic and, hopefully, easier and cleaner code. Now, a
couple of months later I felt compelled to give it another chance, maybe
with the aid of this book. My only concern is, with so many other things
going on with my life, will I find the time to go through the book and
make the US\$34.99 purchase? Don\'t get me wrong, I love buying books
but with 2 young kids and the economy deteriorating before my own eyes,
one has to prioritize one\'s needs.

I then saw a link to [Safary Books Online](http://safari.oreilly.com)
and started drooling at the possibility of having a zillion technical
books available to me from any computer! But once again the price tag
brought my ambitions to a halt... and now I'm left to "enjoy" the
remaining effects of my stomach flu and wish I were a literate fly
inside a Barnes & Nobbles mega store!
