---

date: 2008-06-29
slug: |
  united-states-of-censorship
tags:
 - english
title: United States of Censorship
---

it is amazing just how little real information gets its way to the
American public these days. What we Americans call **news** must be the
equivalent of a soap opera or comic stand up everywhere else in the
world! The problem is so serious that for those who were born here and
never left the country that you end up becoming utterly unaware of what
else is going on around the world or, even worse in my oppinion, not
knowing what kind of terrorism (our government calls it Foreign Policy)
we are perpetrating outside of our borders.

So, while we are spoon fed news about celebraties sexscapades, wild
fires and floods (here in American only off course) and useless bits of
information, the real news end up filtered out and tossed in the
censorship bin. How do you govern/control over a huge population who
believe they are free to do whatever they want? The answer is easy: get
them out of the equation! As long as we go about our lives thinking that
nothing is wrong around us, there is not reason to revolt.

How many people know that Kucinich
[presented](http://ca.youtube.com/watch?v=1qy3z7XWtQc) **several**
articles asking for the impeachment of Bush? That our stupid oil-war in
Iraq has killed over **1.2 million** civilians in Iraq? When was the
last time you saw a video/picture of our young soldiers coming back in a
coffin? It is as if there was nothing going on and we go on with our
lives. How much coverage did our networks give to these issues? **Not
enough**! In any other part of the world, if a president was being
considered for impeachment, guess what would be on all news television
and newspapers?

Think that the new presidential hopefulls are any better? Wrong! I could
never trust someone whose loyalty is far stronger to his
organization/group/posse than to his own countrymen. McCain will be yet
another dictator with world domination fever. Obama? So much for a
change we can believe in. I could never vote for someone who's main
concern is the well being of the State of Israel or who asks his
supporters to pay for Hillary Clinton's \$22 million debt from her
failed presidential bid! I want a president who puts us, American people
first in their agenda. Cut funds for our imperialistic armed forces, and
our obssession with finding water in Mars and use that money to pay off
our own debts!

People who try to speak up end becoming motives for jokes... How many
times was **Ron Paul** ridiculed during the presidential debates?
Apparently it was funny to them that we have been printing money like it
was for a game of Monopoly!

I could go on, believe me.
