---

date: 2008-07-07
slug: |
  stormy-weekend-in-chapel-hill
tags:
 - english
title: Stormy weekend in Chapel Hill
---

This 3-day weekend (it was the Independence Day here in the US this
Friday) turned out to be a 3-day stay indoors weekend for us. Due to a
hurricane (don't remember the name now) that is fast approaching the
East coast, we were rocked by severe thunderstorms every single night.

[![Stormy
weather](http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3041/2643617617_8a99cd71a6.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/ogmaciel/2643617617/)

We had planned to watch the new Indiana Jones movie at the outdoor movie
night in Southern Village but managed to get inside the car right before
the wind kicked in and the sky was lit with lightning. By the time we
got home, it looked pretty bad outside.

[![Trees broken due to storm in
NC](http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3170/2644059880_13f0b1686c.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/ogmaciel/2644059880/)

Saturday we woke up to see a neighbor's car buried under some pretty
think branches and trees snapped in half (the shot above is actually in
front of my house). The sun came out a bit and we thought the worst had
passed. Boy were we wrong! Saturday evening the storm came back with a
vengeance and we lost electricity early in the evening. What do you do
when there's no TV, internet or electricity and need to entertain 2
little girls?

[![Yv, Kate and
I](http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3070/2643238003_de51d6f13d.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/ogmaciel/2643238003/)

You play cards, eat, board games, eat, monkey around, eat some more!
Today, Sunday and the skies are pretty dark and the thunders are still
rolling. Meanwhile my entire family is enjoying a Brazilian barbecue (I
just got off the phone with my dad) and celebrating my youngest sister's
wedding (she got married this Thursday but I couldn't make it). The
"church" wedding will be in August in Southern New Jersey and I won't
miss it!

[![My dad and I after some
beers](http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3107/2644052466_e40251a7ea.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/ogmaciel/2644052466/)

Last month I celebrated my birthday in New Jersey and you can see above
what happened to my dad and I after the barbecue and many Blue Moons!
