---

date: 2008-08-11
slug: |
  recipe-for-a-good-translation-team
tags:
 - english
title: Recipe for a good translation team
---

A while back I was asked by a member of a Ubuntu translation team (who
shall remain anonymous) about how the Brazilian team's workflow worked
and how we managed to maintain our position among the top translated
teams in Rosetta. What follows was my reply to this person. I hope it
will prove to be useful to any other team out there who may be
struggling with the same issues. I'm also interested to learn how other
teams managed to keep their members involved and/or how others can
benefit from their experience.

\|\> Now, the LOCALE translators have some organisation problems and
some \|\> problems to find good guys for translating ubuntu. When I saw,
how \|\> complete is the brasilian translation i get an idea. Maybe you
or some \|\> of the other translators may help us.

Hi there Anonymous! The translation process of free software has been
the reason why I joined the masses of the free software world. It is a
very rewarding experience when you see people being able to take
advantage of open source software in their native tongue.

The Brazilian team has proved to be an interesting experience for me. I
was the second person to take on the lidership of the team, and I'd like
to offer your my opinion and insight as for why we have managed to grow
and maintain a pretty decent track of quantity and quality.

I think that anyone who participates in open source communities likes to
have a sense of direction and ownership. By that I mean that people like
to know what is going on, what they can do (but not in generic terms;
they need specifics) and what the roadmap is. When people see an
organized team and specific goals set out, it makes them want to
participate too.

How can you do this? Simple. Start simple... Schedule IRC meetings on a
regular basis so people can "update" their status as well as discuss
priorities and give feedback on what is working and what is not.Â 
Speaking of priority, create a list with the software packages the
translators should focus on during the period (a weekly sprint?Â 
monthly?) so that once you reach that mark people will have a feeling of
accomplishment! They will like that feeling, I can guarantee you... and
they'll comeback for more!

Also, set up a wiki where people can put their names next to the
packages they're currently working on, so that new collaboratores don't
work on the same packages as other people. Set up a program where
current team members would have to "adopt" a new translator and show
him/her how everything works, as well as be responsible for reviewing
and providing feedback. The current member will feel that he he/she has
ownership of the process and team as a whole, and that is very
rewarding. The new translator will have a feeling of direction... and
that is very rewarding as well! It is a very good cycle that can
strengthen the entire team, no matter if they're "veterans" or
"newbies".

Lastly, let everyone know that their word counts! Assign a current
member as your right hand and share the responsibility of the
administration of the team (ownership, remember?) It is the job of the
administrator to make decisions on behalf of the team, but it is just as
important to heed to the team's members interests and ideas. Having
someone who you trust to bounce off ideas is a sure way to make sure you
stay on track as well.

As far as how we keep the quality of our translations? Many of our
members, myself included, work with the upstream teams for GNOME, KDE,
XFCE, etc and try to stick to their translation standards. I suggest you
take a look at the following web site:
[www.open-tran.eu](http://www.open-tran.eu). It is a great service that
allows you to see what terms the upstream teams are using in their
translations and allows you to also follow the same pattern.

Well, these were the things I did back when I was the leader for the
team. I'm sure the other guys will be able to provide you with some more
tips.
