---

date: 2009-04-15
slug: |
  living-la-vida-geek
tags:
 - english
title: Living La Vida Geek
---

I was very pleased when my good friend **Pete** asked me to be a
contributor to his new project,
[GeekDeck](http://geekdeck.wordpress.com/), "a new zine/blog thingy that
(he is) hoping will wet your appetite for all things geek." Pete and I
have been friends for some time already and find his projects very
stimulating and fun. Whoever hasn't watched his old web show
[Prog8ox](http://www.progbox.co.uk/site/) doesn't missed out big time!

As Pete wanted to publish something fairly quick and gave us all a very
tight schedule (he's a slave driver I tell you), and we went into code
release mode at work, I didn't manage to write my article about
GNU/Linux Appliances and Cloud Computing. Instead, I decided to start a
regular column called "**Cherry Picks of the Month**", where I intend to
write about cool applications and write up a super mini review about
them. Take a look at the first edition
[here](http://geekdeck.wordpress.com/2009/04/13/review-cherry-picks-of-the-month/)
and do send me any application you may want me to review or pimp. As
long as I can get my hands on the source code (don't give me packages,
etc as I do not run any of the popular distros out there) I'll take it
for a whirl.

If you want to read my post about GNU/Linux Appliances don't fret as I
am still considering to write it for an upcoming issue of GeekDeck. I
will also have some new reviews for some awesome web apps that will
knock your translation (*cough* [Transifex](http://transifex.org/)
*cough*) socks off, and... what? You're not a cool translator like
*moi*? No worries, I will also have appliance building and personal
financing in the mix so you don't feel left out.
