---

date: 2009-07-14
slug: |
  thanks-a-lotte-transifex-development-in-full-motion
tags:
 - rpath
title: Thanks a Lotte! Transifex development in full motion!
---

I'm back from **GUADEC 2009** (a blog post dedicated to this will be
posted soon, I promise) and am now trying to get caught up with
everything that has happened at work and projects I follow. Manage to
spend some time today to check what's new with the
[Transifex](http://transifex.org/) project and am very impressed with
the direction it is going.

[![Transifex\'s Lotte
interface](http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2668/3720608467_cd1cf24a8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/ogmaciel/3720608467/)

What you see above is the new tool/feature being added for inline,
online translation of projects, codenamed **Lotte**! In other words,
project maintainers can allow translators to do their translations using
the web as its editor! Off course you can still do uploads of translated
files as before.

If you want to play with the latest Transifex code, I've just
[published](http://www.rpath.org/web/project/transifex/release?id=6497)
some development images for the Transifex Appliance. Choose from
**ISO**, **VMware** or **EC2** images, for both **x86** and **x86_64**
architectures. Your appliances can be updated using its own web based
management system by pointing your browser to the appliance's IP using
port 8003 with the credentials **admin** and **password**. Make sure to
change the password once you've successfully logged in.

This release is based on the development branch of Transifex. A couple
of projects have already been created for you to play with. Log in using
either guest/guest or editor/editor as your user name and password
combination and tinker to your heart's content!

Make sure to read the [documentation](http://docs.transifex.org/) and
file issues/send your feedback to the developers.
