---

date: 2009-07-23
slug: |
  late-post-guadec-post
tags:
 - english
title: Late Post-GUADEC\... Post?
---

Ok, my apologies for not having written up a post on my trip to the
[Canary
Islands](http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&hl=en&geocode=&q=canary+islands&sll=35.928568,-79.026103&sspn=0.009643,0.014677&ie=UTF8&t=h&z=7&iwloc=A)
and the whole experience of attending the [Gran Canary Desktop Summit
2009](http://www.grancanariadesktopsummit.org/)! I think I can summarize
it in one word: **AWESOME**! I can honestly say that I had a blast
meeting a lot of the people that I only knew from irc conversations,
emails and blog posts! A lot of the presentations were very interesting,
some of them having that special je ne sais quoi that triggered an
avalanche of new ideas for my existing projects!

\[caption id="" align="alignnone" width="500" caption="Can you see me
here? Look all to the in the back to the left. By jcorrius under a
Creative Commons license."\][![By jcorrius under a Creative Commons
license.](http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2647/3693069893_c376f4803b_d.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/jcorrius/3693069893/)\[/caption\]

I don't want to talk about specific talks or give a detailed account of
what happened during that week but only to recollect a few interesting
things that caught my attention. So, without much further ado...

My Spanish has improved by leaps and bounds as I forced myself to avoid
using English as much as I could. The one thing that really got me
started was the night I hung out with **Diego**, **GÃ©rman**, **Gil**,
**Silvia** and **(Aparecido) Quesada** at the lobby of the **Catalina
Park Apartments**. I absolutely loved talking to them and learning a lot
about them as well as about Spain, Catalonia (and the political aspect
between these two, thanks to Silvia), all while improving my vocabulary
and learning new idiomatic expressions! :)

I think that meeting [Seif Lotfy](http://seilo.geekyogre.com/) deserves
a paragraph of its own! We met up one day early in the morning by the
beach and we talked for many hours on different occasions about every
possible topic you can think of! He's a very energetic and fun guy to
hang out with, and best of all, he actually knew about my pet project
[BillReminder](http://billreminder.gnulinuxbrasil.org). That will
definitely earn points with me! :)

\[caption id="" align="alignnone" width="375" caption="Seif taking a
nap"\][![Seif decided to take a
nap](http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2631/3747729401_061629854c.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/ogmaciel/3747729401/)\[/caption\]

Speaking of [BillReminder](http://billreminder.gnulinuxbrasil.org/), I
was told by 2 GNOMErs that not only they've used it but also borrowed
some code ideas from it! Flattery issues!!!

I also enjoyed meeting [Simos Xenitellis](http://simos.info/blog) and
probably bugged the poor guy more than I should be allowed! Due to all
the rain we had in the Northeast of the United States I missed my
connection flight from Boston to Madrid by 2 lousy minutes and was
forced to spend 24 hours in Boston! I took advantage of the time and
started playing with Simos' [GNOME i18n Manage
VCS](https://github.com/simos/gnome-i18n-manage-vcs/tree) script and
kept working at it until it got to the point where I had several decent
patches I planned to show him. We talked for quite some time and it
turns out we sort of share the same ideas for his script and the
direction he wants to take it. During the following days he pulled all
of my patches to his repository and have added me as a developer!

Something interesting that happened was the fact that 3 developers of
the very small (but proud as heck!) [Foresight
Linux](http://foresightlinux.org) distribution, all living in the United
States mind you, managed to get together for lunch in Las Palmas: P**aul
Cutler, Ken Vandine** and yours truly. Ken sports the color of (Ubuntu)
**brown** these days but I know that deep down he is still very much
(Foresight) **green**! :)

\[caption id="" align="alignnone" width="500" caption="The Foresight
gang was present!"\][![Lunch break in Las
Palmas](http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2583/3747731731_57749ae3ec.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/ogmaciel/3747731731/)\[/caption\]

A super duper cool project I had a chance to see up close and personal
was the [GNOME Voice Control](http://live.gnome.org/GnomeVoiceControl),
a great tool being developed by my (new) friend **Raphael Nunes**. The
poor guy had barely gotten to the hotel from his flight and was already
hacking away on his presentation. I unfortunately missed it but was told
that when told that you could pretty much tell your GNOME desktop to do
anything you wanted, **Everaldo Canuto** (another new friend) walked up
to the stage and leaning on Raphael's laptop, said: "**Make me a
sandwich**!" When several seconds had ellapsed and he didn't see a
sandwich being delivered to him, he politely added: "**Please?**\"
Priceless!

Speaking of new friends, I made a ton of them and the night before I
left Las Palmas I managed to schedule a get together by the shore with a
few of them: Everaldo Canuto and his lovely fiancee Rosa, Raphael Nunes,
Aparecido Quesada and **Rui Matos**(unfortunately I did not find **Jonh
Wendell** and **Vinicius Depizzol** at the hotel). All Brazilian except
for Rui who is from Portugal and graciously put up with a lot of jokes
from us! I have to tell you, the level of camadarie and intimacy that we
developed during such a short time was proof of how much we all have in
common working under the **GNOME** umbrella. I had not laughed so much
and so hard in quite some time. In the end I was saddened to say goodbye
to such a great bunch of guys!

\[caption id="" align="alignnone" width="500" caption="So was the
Brazilian and Portuguese crew!"\][![Having a good
time](http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2528/3747730475_3156f90541.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/ogmaciel/3747730475/)\[/caption\]

It is funny how little things grow into you when you least suspect. I
miss sitting down at the lobby and just talking to whoever happened to
be around, even the doorman! Watching the sunset by the shore while
drinking a cold **Dorada**, drinking freshly squeezed orange juice and
cafe' con leche for breakfast, trading those vouchers Intel gave us to
get more ice cream or coffee, or even fighting to the end with the other
hundreds of attendants for a free IP in the ever so jammed and slow
wireless access... I miss all of these "little" things already! I keep
telling myself, "had I only slept **two hours** instead of **three** I
could have done so much more!"

\[caption id="" align="alignnone" width="500" caption="If the walls of
this lobby could talk..."\][![Hanging out at the
lobby](http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2461/3747731599_7f4fe63670.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/ogmaciel/3747731599/)\[/caption\]

To the very generous sponsors whose support was fundamental during this
trip, my most humble and heartfull "Thank You" and to those friends I
made during those crazy days, "You have all become much more than an irc
nick!" I look forward to the next opportunity we'll meet again!

\[caption id="" align="alignnone" width="500" caption="By mariosp on
Flickr."\][![By mariosp on
Flickr.](http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2641/3700270001_b74abaefbe_d.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/mariosp/3700270001/)\[/caption\]
