---

date: 2009-08-30
slug: |
  get-your-oven-mittens-on-because-transifex-pyro-is-out
tags:
 - rpath
title: Get your oven mittens on because Transifex Pyro is out!
---

Last weekend the [Indifex](http://www.indifex.com/) developers released
the new version of [Transifex](http://www.transifex.org/), "anÂ **open
service** allowing people toÂ **collaboratively translate** software,
documentation and other types of projects." Codenamed
"[Pyro](http://marvel.com/universe/Pyro)\" (all releases are named after
a X-Men villains), [Transifex
0.7](http://docs.transifex.org/releases/0.7.html) has a pretty lengthy
list of new features and bug fixes to make any translator worth his/her
salt cry with joy!

The one feature sure to turn people's head is the ability to do their
translations online using their **Lotte Translation Editor**. "Its main
features are still under heavy development, but following the â€˜Release
early, Release oftenâ€™ principle, weâ€™ve unleashed this lady out in
the wild to get some feedback and improve", says [Dimitris
Glezos](http://dimitris.glezos.com/en/),Â all time mountain climber and
**Indifex**\'s head honcho.

[![Using Lotte to do online
translations](http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3514/3814640609_732eee28a4.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/ogmaciel/3814640609/)

Fine-grained permissions, submissions to a mailbox, user profiles, and
publican-like I18n support are only a few more nuggets that you will
find on **Pyro**, making it one of the hottest releases of 2009 so make
sure to put on your oven mittens!

If you want to play with the latest **Transifex** code, you may want to
use our development images for the [Transifex
Appliance](http://www.rpath.org/web/project/transifex/). Following the
stand-alone, â€œbatteries includedâ€? model of software appliances, you
get a complete **Transifex** system with all dependencies and services
pre-configured so that you can start experimenting with it right away.
Choose from **ISO**, **VMware** or **Amazon EC2** images, for both
**x86** and **x86_64** architectures to run on a virtual machine,
dedicated server or using a virtualization software.

Your appliances can be updated using its own **web based management
system** by pointing your browser to the applianceâ€™s IP address using
port **8003**. Login with the credentials â€˜**admin**â€™ and
â€˜**password**â€™ and make sure to change the password once youâ€™ve
successfully logged in.

[![Welcome page for the
Appliance](http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3495/3814640463_7f10e499c5.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/ogmaciel/3814640463/)

This appliance comes pre-bundled with a couple of projects already
created for you to play with. Log in to the **Transifex** interface
using either **guest/guest** or **editor/editor** as your user name and
password combination and tinker to your heartâ€™s content!

A couple of new features that have been added to the appliance itself
was the ability to **read/download** Transifex, Apache and My SQL **log
files** and a new customized front page (just see above).

[![Transifex
logs](http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2563/3816586880_eb81c56bc3.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/ogmaciel/3816586880/)

I've also customized the list of services one would most likely want to
manage (**start, stop, restart**) to simplify this administrative task.
For the next customization, as the appliance already allows you to take
**backups** over **NFS, CIFS/Samba** and/or **local storage**, I will
configure it so that it includes all the files related to **Transifex**
itself, including **database dumps** and **configuration files**.

[![Manage the appliance
services](http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2649/3814640535_f86a07d966.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/ogmaciel/3814640535/)

Have you got a pretty cool project hosted on
[Github](http://github.com/), [Gitorious](http://gitorious.com/),
[Bitbucket](http://bitbucket.org/) or any one of these cool self serve
code hosting services and want to attract more translators to help you
make your project "speak different languages"? Don't want to move your
source code to another host? Don't want to run your own version of
Transifex? Not a problem! Just head down to
[Transifex.net](http://transifex.net) and register your project for
translations completely **FREE** of charge! You see,
[Transifex.net](http://transifex.net) is also a **hub for translators**
to offer their services and showcase their skills, so once you're in, it
will be dead easy to attract collaborators!

Need to step it up a notch and get **quality support** service, direct
access to new releases and even on-site support? Get in touch with the
amazing **Indifex** folks and check out their **professional**
[services](http://indifex.com/services/). Some amazing
[projects](http://transifex.org/wiki/ProjectsUsingTransifex) are already
trusting their translations to **Transifex**, so what are you waiting
for?
