---

date: 2009-10-19
slug: |
  looking-back-on-looking-back
tags:
 - english
title: Looking back on looking back
---

Reading today's post by **Miguel** about the [10 years anniversary of
Ximian's
incorporation](http://tirania.org/blog/archive/2009/Oct-19.html) brought
back memories of a time when I wasn't as involved with open source... a
time when I hated my job and would do anything to score a job with a
Linux company. I had decided to attend a Microsoft boot camp in
Massachusetts and since I was going to be around Boston, for some reason
I decided to send Miguel an email asking him if he would mind meeting
with me and maybe grabbing a cup of coffee. It was back in early 2005 (I
blogged about it [here](http://www.ogmaciel.com/?p=8)) and I was such a
huge **fanboy** of Miguel and all that he represented.

Ever since that day, I had the opportunity to meet Miguel 2 more times
while attending some of the open source conferences. Our conversations
were always very brief as he was always being mobbed and there wasn't
much room to keep a normal conversation without him being interrupted by
someone requesting his attention. He was always very cordial and always
complemented me for not having an accent when I talked (he knew I was
**Brazilian** but I don't think he realized I had lived here in the
**US** for quite some time).

So I never really got to hang out with him and I never got a chance to
tell him how important his work with Mono was to keep me motivated while
trying to transition from being strictly a Microsoft developer to trying
out C\# and writing cross platform applications. I remember telling my
friends that I would love to work for him and would even work free of
charge just to be under his tutelage! Alas, when you're a father you
have to make sacrifices and my plan to ask for a job with no pay wasn't
going to cut it!

Anyhow, I just wanted to say to all the early GNOMErs, Ximians and
whatever else you may call yourselves these days that I appreciate your
hard work, perseverance and foresight! The open source world would be at
a loss without you guys!
