---

date: 2009-12-04
slug: |
  my-own-personal-translation-portal-in-the-cloud
tags:
 - rpath
title: My Own Personal Translation Portal in the Cloud
---

Had some time today during lunch to work on the [Transifex
Appliance](https://www.rpath.org/ui/#/appliances?id=https://www.rpath.org/api/products/transifex)
and decided to play with the **newly added feature of supporting
subversion over https**. So I launched the**devel EC2** instance on
[Amazon Web Service](http://aws.amazon.com/) and proceeded to add [PCMan
File Manager](http://pcmanfm.sourceforge.net/) so that I could translate
it online. Before you ask, yes: I do have commit access to the project
and could have checked out the code locally and done the work as I
usually do, but that's not fun! Besides, being the good citizen that I
am, I felt like testing this new feature (**remember**: this is only
available on tip!) and providing some feedback.

After updating my appliance to run the latest code, I took a stab at
trying to add PCManFM as a project and see if I could then work on trunk
code. To make a long story short, the code did not play well with
subversion repositories with invalid ssl certificates, and it fell flat
on its face. A quick look at the Transifex log files via the appliance's
administrative interface, I was able to ping **diegobz** on
**\#transifex** and with a very subtle crack of a whip got him to look
into the problem.

![Checking the
logs](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2009/12/transifex_rpa.png)

We then proceeded to test and validate some of the changes he made on
the spot, and once we got it right, I updated the appliance to use the
new code. From then on, it was a matter of creating the project:

![Adding the PCManFM
project](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2009/12/project-300x279.png)

Add the proper information to pull code from trunk (I set the **Root**
attribute to
**\`https://pcmanfm.svn.sourceforge.net/svnroot/pcmanfm/trunk/
\<https://pcmanfm.svn.sourceforge.net/svnroot/pcmanfm/trunk/\>\`\_\_**
by the way):

![Pull code from
trunk](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2009/12/component-300x279.png)

Configure it for submission directly to the upstream project (I could
also have chosen to send it as a patch via email to the mantainer):

![Allow
submission](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2009/12/component_submission-300x279.png)

And start working on my translations using the handy dandy Lotte editor:

![Lotte online
editor](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2009/12/lotte-300x279.png)

A few minutes later I was submitting away my translation and getting it
committed automatically to the upstream project! This is how
translations should be done by the way: working directly with the
upstream project. :)

The **only** time I had to **ssh into the appliance** and do manual
configuration changes was when I entered my subversion credentials for
[SourceForge](http://sf.net) (that's where PCManFM's code is hosted)
into the **/usr/share/transifex/settings/80-vcs-extras.conf** file. I
added the following line and restarted the apache server:

> SVN_CREDENTIALS = {'sourceforge.net': ('**MY_SF_USER_NAME**',
> '**MY_PASSWORD**')}

Yeah, I shouldn't have to ssh into the appliance but I have bugged the
Transifex guys about this and am trying to convince them to make this
part of the project configuration process... It's only a matter of time
'til they crack! :)

Anyhow, there's some pretty cool new features scheduled to come out with
the next release, like granular commit access...

![Granular access
control](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2009/12/project_accesscontrol-300x279.png)

... so, if you want to play with the **latest Transifex code**, make
sure to download the [Transifex
Appliance](https://www.rpath.org/ui/#/appliances?id=https://www.rpath.org/api/products/transifex)
**Devel** images and always keep it up to date using the web based
administrative interface. If you've never used it, just point your
browser to the **appliance's IP address** but make sure to use **https**
and add port **8003**! For instance,
<https://ec2-75-101-171-187.compute-1.amazonaws.com:8003> \*

-   don't bother trying this url for it will be shutdown soon :)

As always, feel free to ask me anything related to the appliance, and
file issues and/or send your thank-you notes to the Transifex guys! :)
