---

date: 2010-01-04
slug: |
  re-is-foresight-linux-dead
tags:
 - english
title: "Re: is Foresight Linux dead?"
---

On his latest post titled "[Foresight Linux is
dead?](http://vinci.wordpress.com/2009/12/30/foresight-linux-is-dead/)",
**Thilo Pfennigs** rightly asks the question that many of the current
[Foresight Linux](http://foresightlinux.org) users may be asking
themselves. With the current stable release dated as of **May 2009** and
no explicit roadmap stating when the next release will be published, is
it really safe to say that **Foresight Linux** is indeed dead?

In order to properly answer this question, one must first take a look at
what the year of 2009 reserved for this young distribution. Born out of
**Ken Vandine**\'s desire to follow the **GNOME** project as close to
the upstream source as possible and introduce all the latest and coolest
applications out there to the desktop before anyone else, **Foresight**
was for a while synonymous to bleeding edge Linux done right!

Powered by the revolutionary
[Conary](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conary_(package_manager)) package
management system and a small but talented and determined crew of
developers, Ken was able to ship a new version of the distribution the
same day that a **GNOME** release was published, a feat that no other
distribution was able to keep up, even those enjoying of large hordes of
developers and user base. **Foresight** was the **first distribution**
to include several trend setter applications out there to the default
installation, such as **Banshee, F-Spot, Tomboy, Gwibber, Pulse Audio,
PackageKit**, among many others! And since the distribution followed a
rolling release cycle, users did not have to wait for a major release in
order to get the very latest bits.

Even if **DistroWatch**\'s numbers weren\'t impressive, those who took
the time to test drive the distribution fell in love with the community,
package selection, and most likely the possibilities that the underlying
**Conary** technology provided for those inclined to do a little
packaging or package maintenance. If you were a **GNOME** user/fan and
didn't mind the small sized, hand picked repository of supported
packages, then you'd probably feel right at home! Sure there were **KDE,
Xfce, Fluxbox, Openbox** packages available but those were mostly
supported by some of the core users who didn't mind doing the heavy
lifting.

Then came 2009 and with it the major financial crisis the shook many
companies around the world, creating a **massive layoff wave** for most
of the first quarter. Sadly, approximately **75%** of the active
developers that comprised **Foresight**\'s core developer base were part
of the many casualties, including **Ken Vandine**, the heart and soul of
the distribution! By late February these developers had already joined
the ranks of companies such as **Red Hat** and **Novell** to do package
and kernel management. Ken himself was quickly nabbed by **Canonical**
to join their Desktop Experience Team, concluding then the completely
dismemberment of the seasoned **Foresight** team!

Deprived of its core developers who were now devoting their time to
working for their respective new companies, **Foresight**\'s run at
being a bleeding edge distribution and being able to keep up with the
release schedules of **GNOME** (and all of its dependencies) quickly
spiraled down toward what looked like certain doom. **AntÃ³nio
"Doniphon" Meireles**, second in charge of the distribution and holder
of all the knowledge related to how all parts worked together became the
sole guardian and maintainer of all packages. Have you ever tried to
sync up and maintain all the modules that make up the **X.org** stack by
yourself? How about making sure that every single package in the
repository is properly compiled and linked to a newer version of Python?

Unfortunately for many of our loyal users expected point releases
stopped from happening on time and deadlines were never met. Having been
using **Foresight** Linux as my primary and only distribution for the
last 3 years, I myself started to wonder if 2009 would mark the end of
it all.

It took a few months for the remaining developers and users to get over
the deep scars left from the massive exodus suffered early last year,
but our user base proved to be very resilient and new developers stepped
up to fill in the gaps. AntÃ³nio was still doing the heavy lifting but
this new crop of developers took upon themselves to bring the
distribution closer to its former shape.

Slowly but surely milestones were achieved and the development branch
eventually caught up with the latest **GNOME** packages. As of 2 weeks
ago the development branch was pretty stable and I believe that only a
few minor issues with **PolicyKit** were blocking a new release. Some
massive work has also been done to pave down the way for **Foresight
3.0**, a major move that will allow for a more modular platform that can
be used to derive other distributions, leveraging the flexibility and
functionality provided by **Conary**. Moreover, the "**Boots**\" project
was kicked off to bring a **Fedora** based distribution completely
managed by **Conary**, which should free up the time our developers
spend maintaining some of the more complex stacks of the operating
system and let them focus on making your desktop "**freaking cool**!"

So to answer the original question posted by Thilo, "**is Foresight
Linux dead?**\" I can gladly say \"**Far from it**!" I predict that the
**Foresight** community will rally together in 2010 to get back to being
the most **GNOMEic** and bleeding edge distribution out there! As the
**Foresight Community Manager** I can honestly say that we have always
been and will always be a **niche distribution**! We don't have the man
power that distributions such as **Ubuntu, Fedora, Mandriva or
OpenSuse** have to provide the same level of documentation or user
support. We obviously cannot afford to have the same depth of package
variety in our repositories orÂ  claim to have the expertise and time to
resolve all issues that manage to get filed in our tracking system. But
I can guarantee one thing: **Foresight is here to stay!**

If you want to try a revolutionary package management system and want to
be part of a an exciting crew, come hang out with us on **\#foresight at
Freenode**. We will help you get started and I promise you that you'll
be able to contribute in no time.

**Expect great things from Foresight Linux this 2010!**
