---

date: 2010-03-22
slug: |
  radio-tray-gives-light-listening-a-whole-new-meaning
tags:
 - english
title: Radio Tray gives \"light listening\" a whole new meaning!
---

**The need to be thin!**

I don't consider myself a "power user" when it comes to how I listen to
music in general, and most of the time I'll use whatever media player is
installed by default with my distribution. Only recently I started
actively tagging and editing metadata about the songs I own, so you
could safely say that if I can listen to music while I work, I'm a happy
camper! Music has become an important part of my daily activities,
whether at work, driving or at home. As a matter of fact, much like
"**Rob Gordon**\" played by **John Cusack** in "[High
Fidelity](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0146882/)", I can come up with a
soundtrack for several different times of my life.

For most of the time I'm happy with media players that flood my desktop
with a variety of "supplemental" information about the current track or
album being played on my system. But I'm well aware that all of these
bells and whistles come at a hefty price unless you happen to be running
a beefed up system with a ton of memory. My current systems are probably
considered to be in the "beefy" category, but just because I have some
"spare" memory laying around, it doesn't mean I want to burn some
megabytes for the sake of getting some "bling factor".

Don't get me wrong, I can appreciate some of the features that lets you
view your music habits or lets you browse through your collection,
displaying album cover art in 3D. But once the coolness factor is over,
it all boils down to one thing: I just want listen to my music! That is
why I was truly excited when I learned about [Radio
Tray](http://radiotray.sourceforge.net/) the other day, a fairly small
and easy to use online radio streaming player for the desktop.

**Carlos Ribeiro**, Radio Tray's lead developer makes it very clear that
the objective for his project is not to compete against the many
different media players out there, but only to provide a simple and
intuitive interface for those who only want to listen to online radio
stations. It took only a few minutes playing with the current version
(0.5) to see that Carlos stuck to his word!

**Adding new online stations**

\[caption id="attachment_833" align="alignright" width="141"
caption="Figure 01"\][![Radio Tray spiffy-looking
icon](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/03/figure01.png)](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/03/figure01.png)\[/caption\]

Once you've installed Radio Tray in your system (currently there is a
[\*.deb
file](http://downloads.sourceforge.net/project/radiotray/releases/radiotray_0.5_all.deb?use_mirror=voxel)
and [Foresight Linux](http://www.foresightlinux.org) already provides it
via its package management system, but you can always use the source,
Luke!), you can launch its minimalistic interface by finding it in the
**Sound and Video** menu section of your window manager of choice.
Alternatively you can run **radiotray** from the command line, but the
end result will be the same: a spiffy looking icon showing up on your
system's tray.

\[caption id="attachment_834" align="alignright" width="146"
caption="Figure 2"\][![Adding new radio
stations](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/03/figure02.png)](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/03/figure02.png)\[/caption\]

Adding new radio stations couldn't get any easier, as there is only one
important piece of information that you need to know before hand. Simply
right-click the Radio Tray icon and choose "**Config radios...**\" from
the context menu (Figure 2).

\[caption id="attachment_835" align="alignright" width="300"
caption="Figure 3"\][![New radio
station](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/03/figure03-300x88.png)](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/03/figure03.png)\[/caption\]

Then add a new radio, providing a name and the url to its streamed
playlist... and that is it (Figure 3)! Now you can enjoy the tunes of
your favorite online radio stations and feel good about not needlessly
squandering your resources around.

Another factor that led me to take Radio Tray for a spin was that
**python** is the *language dujour* for its development and the fairly
small number of dependencies involved in building it. In fact, if you're
running one of the popular GNU/Linux distributions out there, then you
should have all you need. Carlos has done a pretty good job at keeping
the code simple and easy to follow, so anyone who's tinkered with pygtk
before can aspire to contribute to the project. Those who have taken the
time to provide feedback and report issues or file for new features will
agree that the level of attention to user satisfaction is pretty high
for such a young project!

I have already taken the liberty of adding Radio Tray to
[Transifex.net](http://www.transifex.net/projects/p/radiotray/) so that
people can start translating this awesome little project!

**Let a thousand online stations bloom!**

So if you're an online radio fan out there who is feeling the urge to
try something new, I highly recommend Radio Tray for your daily dose of
streamed content. Add on top of that a little bit of [Radio
Paradise](http://www.radioparadise.com) and you're sure to enjoy a great
day at the office, home or wherever you may be!
