---

date: 2010-03-24
slug: |
  book-review-python-testing-beginners-guide
tags:
 - english
title: "Book Review: Python Testing: Beginner\\'s Guide"
---

\[caption id="attachment_813" align="alignleft" width="243"
caption="Python Testing: Beginner's Guide"\][![Python Testing:
Beginner\'s
Guide](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/03/packt_pythontesting-243x300.jpg)](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/03/packt_pythontesting.jpg)\[/caption\]

It is very rare to find a book that covers testing in the software
world. Testing is something that authors will briefly mention on
programming books and if you're lucky you may even find a couple of
lines of code related to the subject. So it was with great excitement
that I purchasedÂ  "[Python Testing: Beginner's
Guide](http://bit.ly/PythonTestingBook)\"by **Daniel Arbuckle**!.

For the longest time I have wanted to start wrapping my code in testing
functions so to improve the quality and reliability of what I write here
at work. This book does a pretty decent job at introducing the reader to
several of the major Python tools for **test driven development** such
as **doctests**, **unittest**, **nose**, etc. Contrary to the recurring
method of going through chapter upon chapter of introductory background
information, the author (much to my delight) chose to hit the ground
running and get right to the point. All chapters are filled to the brim
with detailed examples and sample code to follow along, though some of
the use cases felt a bit too specific to a given area and not something
the broader audience can relate to.

For good or bad, this book expects that the reader is well versed in
Python and the generic idea behind why test driven development is a good
thing. So if you're missing one of these "requirements", you should
probably pick up some additional material (check out "[Expert Python
Programming](http://bit.ly/ExpertPythonBook)\" by **Tarek ZiadÃ©**).

Overall, I recommend this book for the Python coder out there who takes
pride in their code and want to start delivering quality over quantity.
