---

date: 2010-03-24
slug: |
  lxde-and-the-google-summer-of-code
tags:
 - english
title: LXDE and the Google Summer of Code
---

\[caption id="attachment_845" align="alignleft" width="300"
caption="LXDE in the Google Summer of Code"\][![Google Summer of Code
2010](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/03/2010soclogo.jpg)](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/03/2010soclogo.jpg)\[/caption\]

In case you [missed](http://blog.lxde.org/?p=609) it, the
[LXDE](http://lxde.org) project is taking part of this year's [Google
Summer of Code](http://socghop.appspot.com/)! I'm also very excited for
the invitation to participate for the first time in the capacity of
mentor!

\"LXDE is an **energy saving** and **extremely fast** and performing
desktop solution. It works well with computers on the low end of the
performance spectrum such as new generation **netbooks** and other small
mobile computers. LXDE is designed for cloud networks such as local
freifunk clouds or the global Internet cloud. It can be built on top of
various Linux distributions such as Ubuntu or Debian. It provides a fast
desktop experience connecting easily with applications in the cloud and
supports a wealth of programs, that can be installed with Linux systems
locally. LXDE already supports many computer processor architectures
including Intel, MIPS and ARM."

There are quite a few ideas already in the
[wiki](http://wiki.lxde.org/en/Google_Summer_of_Code_2010) page but we
can always use more! :) Want to learn about **LXDE** and join a crew of
hard working guys? Don't just sit right there! Write down your ideas
today!
