---

date: 2010-03-26
slug: |
  selenium-and-sauce-presentation
tags:
 - english
title: Selenium and Sauce presentation
---

[![Crayon Test by
PauS](http://farm1.static.flickr.com/95/274808215_51854b0261_d.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/kapkap/274808215/)

Crayon Test by *PauS*

It was with great anticipation that I headed down to Duke University
North Pavillion to listen to [Frank
Wierzbicki](http://fwierzbicki.blogspot.com/)\'s, lead committer for
[Jython](http://jython.org/), presentation on
[Selenium](http://seleniumhq.org/) and [Sauce](http://saucelabs.com/)
for this month's [TriZPUG](http://trizpug.org/) meeting. Having used a
few other tools to automate web application testing/QA, I felt that it
was time to revisit Selenium and see if there was anything new worth
checking.

I must say that the combination of [Selenium](http://seleniumhq.org/)
and [Sauce](http://saucelabs.com/) make up for a killer toolset for
anyone who has to deal with supporting a web application across multiple
platforms and browsers! Some of the features related to strictly writing
Python code and driving testes from the command line had me salivating,
but what really made a difference for me was [Frank
Wierzbicki](http://fwierzbicki.blogspot.com/) himself!

What a pleasure it was to sit there and hear him pour out with
excitement the cool things you can do with those tools! It was
contagious too! Now, I'm no stranger to tools like Selenium as I have
spent my fair share with [Windmill](http://www.getwindmill.com/) (**love
it**!) and [SOASTA's Concerto](http://www.soasta.com/) as well as [RIA
Test](http://www.riatest.com/), but Frank's excitement made me want to
try Selenium again! And again!

This was the first time I saw him speak but I sure hope it won't be the
last!
