---

date: 2010-03-26
slug: |
  wish-list-distutils-best-practice-guide
tags:
 - english
title: "Wish list: Distutils best practice guide"
---

\[caption id="" align="alignleft" width="500" caption="Prayers by
Xerones"\][![Prayers by
Xerones](http://farm1.static.flickr.com/15/19717875_99fde3f6db_d.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/xerones/19717875/)\[/caption\]

When it comes to distributing source code, specially python code, I
really wish there was a concise and detailed best practice guide for
using [distutils](http://docs.python.org/distutils/)! Don't get me
wrong, the documentation is pretty good and covers a lot of ground, but
what I really want is a standard "template" if you will, that python
developers can take and do some minimal modifications to customize it to
their needs.

For instance, and don't ask me why as I don't have a clue, Ubuntu seems
to insist that data files should go to /usr/local/share whereas other
distros expect them to live on /usr/share. It would be nice to have
specific examples on how to handle situations like this, as well as how
to properly handle gconf schema installation. This last one, as a matter
of fact, was the main reason why I switched from distutils was my
difficulty getting this to work 100%!

During my research I did come across a [Distutils
CookBook](http://wiki.python.org/moin/Distutils/Cookbook), but the few
"**recipes**\" don't really show the whole picture. So in order to
really understand how to use them, it felt like one has to first learn
how to make **galantines served chaud-froid**!
