---

date: 2010-03-28
slug: |
  book-review-django-1-0-website-development
tags:
 - english
title: "Book Review: Django 1.0 Website Development"
---

\[caption id="attachment_860" align="alignleft" width="300"
caption="Django 1.0 Website Development"\][![Django 1.0 Website
Development](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/03/packt_djangowebsitedevelopment.jpg)](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/03/packt_djangowebsitedevelopment.jpg)\[/caption\]

Back when I purchased my ebook version of â€œ[Python Testing:
Beginnerâ€™s Guide](http://bit.ly/PythonTestingBook)â€œby **Daniel
Arbuckle**, I also snagged a copy of "[Django 1.0 Website
Development](http://bit.ly/DjangoWebDevelopment)\" by **Ayman Hourieh**.

Once again, I have to tip my head to the folks at Packt Publishing for
their decision of selling ebooks and **not password protecting** them,
giving you complete control over your purchase!!! You can also**copy
tex**t from it, which makes your life really easy when youâ€™re
following along and want to copy some of the code being described!

If you're new to Django and want to learn quickly how to use this
powerful framework or, if you're like me and want to get your hands
dirty on a small project to get you up to speed, then **this is the book
you should buy**! Let me say this again so not to leave any room for
doubts: I am wholeheartedly recommending this book!

I wish more books were written like "[Django 1.0 Website
Development](http://bit.ly/DjangoWebDevelopment)": You start off with an
idea for a full blown project and as you progress through the chapters,
you build this project from scratch to its completeness! This is **not a
reference book** and you should already know what Django is, etc, etc.

Each chapter builds onto the next one, giving you a full sense of
developing a web application from the ground up, all the while learning
some cool techniques such as adding AJAX-y effects and doing in-place
searches and editing of information:

[Chapter 1: Introduction to
Django](https://www.packtpub.com/toc/django-10-website-development-table-contents#chapter_1)
[Chapter 2: Getting
Started](https://www.packtpub.com/toc/django-10-website-development-table-contents#chapter_2)
[Chapter 3: Building a Social Bookmarking
Application](https://www.packtpub.com/toc/django-10-website-development-table-contents#chapter_3)
[Chapter 4: User Registration and
Management](https://www.packtpub.com/toc/django-10-website-development-table-contents#chapter_4)
[Chapter 5: Introducing
Tags](https://www.packtpub.com/toc/django-10-website-development-table-contents#chapter_5)
[Chapter 6: Enhancing the User Interface with
AJAX](https://www.packtpub.com/toc/django-10-website-development-table-contents#chapter_6)
[Chapter 7: Voting and
Commenting](https://www.packtpub.com/toc/django-10-website-development-table-contents#chapter_7)
[Chapter 8: Creating an Administration
Interface](https://www.packtpub.com/toc/django-10-website-development-table-contents#chapter_8)
[Chapter 9: Advanced Browsing and
Searching](https://www.packtpub.com/toc/django-10-website-development-table-contents#chapter_9)
[Chapter 10: Building User
Networks](https://www.packtpub.com/toc/django-10-website-development-table-contents#chapter_10)
[Chapter 11: Extending and
Deploying](https://www.packtpub.com/toc/django-10-website-development-table-contents#chapter_11)
[Chapter 12: What
Next?](https://www.packtpub.com/toc/django-10-website-development-table-contents#chapter_12)

By the time you're done with it, you will wish this book had more than
12 chapters! But have no fear, soon I'll be neck deep into "[Django 1.1
Testing and Debugging](http://bit.ly/DjangoTestingBook)", due to be
published this April! :)
