---

date: 2010-03-29
slug: |
  beer-heaven
tags:
 - english
title: Beer Heaven
---

\[caption id="attachment_866" align="alignleft" width="225"
caption="Beer Heaven"\][![Beer
Heaven](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/03/2010-03-27-17.04.03-225x300.jpg)](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/03/2010-03-27-17.04.03.jpg)\[/caption\]

There is a place [where the beer flows like wine. Where beautiful women
instinctively flock like the salmon of
Capistrano](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0109686/quotes). It is true! I
have seen it with my own eyes! No, it is not **Aspen, CO**. It's a
little Russian liquor around the block from where my dad lives, with
walls completely covered with... you guessed it, **beer**!

Armed with a plastic basket and the eagerness of a kid turned loose in a
candy store, I worked my way through the aisles, jaw dropped to the
floor and eyes fixated on the smorgasbord of colored bottles of
different shapes and colors, trying to figure out the optimal battle
plan.

Belgium, Germany, Czech Republic, Russia, England... The globetrotterÂ 
in me had no boundaries, knew no borders, and my empty plastic basket
paid the price for my curiosity and unquenchable thirst. Small and
large, dark and pale, exotic and questionable(?), the bottles kept on
piling and by the time I somehow arrived at the cashier, I realized I
had forgotten to breath all along the way.

\[caption id="attachment_870" align="alignright" width="300"
caption="The "Before" shot"\][![The \"Before\"
shot](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/03/DSCN02511-300x225.jpg)](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/03/DSCN02511.jpg)\[/caption\]

Once I got to my dad's and properly recovered from the experience, we
proceeded to create our beer fortress and prepare to immerse in what
promised to be an amazing beer tasting adventure. Now, I'm no beer
expert by any stretch of the imagination and usually gravitate to the
Belgium/German and "hoppy" beers. Some of the bottles we bought were
definitely outside my level of comfort and were purchased with the sole
purpose of experimenting. If you're looking for some expert advice and
such, then head on down to [BeerAdvocate](http://beeradvocate.com/) as
those guys seem to know about the topic. Me? Nah... I just enjoy a cold
one every now and then. :)

\[caption id="attachment_868" align="alignleft" width="300" caption="The
"After" shot"\][![The \"After\"
shot](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/03/DSCN0253-300x225.jpg)](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/03/DSCN0253.jpg)\[/caption\]

My dad and I are slowly working our way through our loot but we decided
to take the "after" picture ahead of time, just in case we're...
incapacitated after our beer tasting experiment.
