---

date: 2010-04-12
slug: |
  radio-tray-0-5-1
tags:
 - english
title: Radio Tray 0.5.1
---

[![Radio
Tray](http://radiotray.sourceforge.net/radio.png)](http://radiotray.sourceforge.net/)It
is with great pleasure that I announce the
[release](http://linuxsoftware.blogsome.com/category/radio-tray/) of
[Radio Tray](http://radiotray.sourceforge.net/) **0.5.1**! I have been
following the development of this tiny streaming media player from the
very start and even cloned it so that I could play with it on
[BitBucket](http://bitbucket.org). After a while I approached the
developer, [Carlos Ribeiro](http://linuxsoftware.blogsome.com), and
asked him to take a look and all of the stuff I had done. I also
suggested that he starts using **Mercurial** instead of **Subversion**
to make easier for people to clone the code and submit patches in the
near future.

Well, he not only liked what I had done but also gave me commit access
to the project and moved the source code to a new mercurial repository!
I also registered the project on
[Transifex](http://www.transifex.net/projects/p/radiotray/) to
facilitate the job of getting translations quickly and in less than 2
weeks we now have **Radio Tray** translated to **15 different
languages**!

It has been such a great pleasure working with Carlos these last 2
weeks! I have learned a lot of new things along the way and am really
looking forward to the next release! As always, you can expect to find
**Radio Tray** 0.5.1 in [Foresight Linux](http://foresightlinux.org),
but Carlos has also made a deb file for those running 'buntu. :P
