---

date: 2010-04-13
slug: |
  stop-whining-and-improve-your-life
tags:
 - english
title: Stop whining and improve your life
---

[![image0](http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3025/2587484034_5f251f4583_m_d.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/addrox/2587484034/)

-   During your day to day conversation with your friends and family
    members, do you find yourself talking about work or life in general
    in a negative manner?
-   Do you tell others that something or someone is preventing you from
    moving ahead and fulfilling your dreams?
-   Do you tend to hang out with people who share your (negative)
    opinion about work and life?
-   Can you keep a conversation with anyone without eventually dragging
    your audience into the "painful state" that your life is?

If you've managed to go through these questions and answered "no" to all
of them, then congratulations for being such an optimistic person (or
maybe all of your friends have left you?)! Now, if you've answered "yes"
to any or several of these questions, then my friend... you're a
**whiner**!

It is not an easy thing to arrive at this conclusion by yourself, and
often most whiners go all of their lives bitching and moaning without
even noticing it, distilling their hate for everything and everyone who
does not conform with their life style and point of view.

There is a cure, however, and I'm more than willing to share a couple of
little changes you can incorporate into your daily routine to help you
shed your pessimistic past behind and become a more pleasant and happy
person!

First of all, **take a deep breath and smile**! Really! Depending on
what level of stress and/or unhappiness your life is, you'd be surprised
how hard it is to take a deep breath and smile! This act along, if done
with the best of intentions, may give you a glimpse at just how you face
your life. Some people are so ready for confrontation that they spend
their entire day in "attack mode", ready to strangle the first person
who "dares to look at them the wrong way." This is one of those
situations when your body language shows your true inner state of mind.

This leads to my next advice: **don't automatically assume the worst
from everyone!** There is a huge difference between walking into a room
where you're already expecting the worst from others AND walking into
this same room and not making assumptions about other people's
intentions toward you. If you remember to smile and don't make negative
assumptions, chances are that you'll be more receptive to what other
people have to say and you will also reply in a more receptive manner.

It is also very important to **avoid other whiners**! Once you become a
more positive person and start practicing my first 2 advices, it will be
easier to spot your whining friends. :) Now, you don't have to
completely stop talking to them or end your relationship all together.
Simply try to **avoid falling into the trap of being pessimistic or
hearing other people complain about their lives**. Remember, your way of
dealing with the choices you made in the past wasn't really helping you
before and you'll just have to move to a different strategy. As soon as
this someone starts whining, quickly try to change the subject into
something more pleasant for you, and hopefully for that someone as well.
It's like that old saying my mom used to tell me: "Tell me whom you walk
with and Iâ€™ll tell you who you are." Surround yourself with people
that have a positive attitude toward life, and toward you! When you keep
hanging out with people who are always in a bad mood, eventually you
will also be in a foul mood.

Finally, be proactive! When someone asks you to do something for them,
don't content yourself with doing "only what they asked you to do"!
Always give your 100% in whatever you do and don't do it expecting
something in return. Your wife asked you to take care of the dishes? Do
that and maybe cook dinner too while you're at it! You'll feel good
about yourself and she's sure to appreciate your effort. You've been
giving a new task and you feel that you don't feel excited about it or
don't want to learn a new skill? Come to work one hour earlier and leave
one hour later than usual for a couple of days, and invest the extra
couple of hours to better prepare yourself. Get that task done and walk
the extra mile by documenting it along the way.

Basically, keep a positive, carefree, cup-is-half-full type of attitude
toward everything and everyone. You will notice that your days will
become more pleasant, you'll feel fulfilled and people will appreciate
your new, positive attitude.
