---

date: 2010-04-14
slug: |
  so-you-want-to-learn-inkscape
tags:
 - english
title: Learning Inkscape?
---

[![Inkscape](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/inkscape-logo-300x290.png)](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/inkscape-logo.png)Lately
I have found myself spending more and more time playing with
[Inkscape](http://www.inkscape.org/), the amazing open source vector
graphic editor! The main reason being that my oldest daughter has shown
interest in drawing and graphic design.Â  Since we only run
**GNU/Linux** at our house, I had to choose something that was open
source and available for my [distribution](http://foresightlinux.org).

My last attempt at anything remotely close to "art" was way back when in
the early 1990s when a friend gave me a copy of [Paint Shop
Pro](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corel_Paint_Shop_Pro). This is when it
was still distributed by [Jasc
Software](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jasc_Software). Back then I was
very proud of being able to create small and colorful geometric shapes
and felt very at home with Paint Shop Pro. However, the day they decided
to add new features and turned it into a **Photoshop** with all the
floating windows and advanced plugins was the day I gave up on doing
graphic design for good!

[![Nerdson online
comic](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/nerdson214-300x115.png)](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/nerdson214.png)Now,
I have a deep respect for those who not only understand how to properly
use a tool (any tool for that matter) but also have the imagination to
go beyond what that tool provides and is able to create something
totally amazing. One such person is my friend [Karlisson
Bezerra](http://bit.ly/aNNrjw), creator and maintainer of what is in my
opinion one of the best online comics ever (sorry, it is all in
**Brazilian Portuguese only**, but you should still check out his
skills)!

So I decided that I needed to learn a bit more about **Inkscape** before
introducing my daughter to the world of computer graphic design. I
immediately remembered about **\*heathenx**\*\'s web site,
"[Screencasters](http://bit.ly/cjPRuD)", chock-full of great tutorials
by someone who is not only an amazing artist but also a talented
screencaster! I started browsing through the tutorials looking for
something a "newbie" such as myself would be comfortable doing and
eventually got to his suggestion for another post titled "[Drawing a
rocket with Inkscape is not rocket
science](http://nicubunu.blogspot.com/2010/03/drawing-rocket-with-inkscape-is-not.html)".Â 
That little rocket looked like a good start for me, so without thinking
twice I plunged into his tutorial.

I must say that having a graphical step-by-step article like this is
indeed a great way to teach someone how to learn a new skill, and in the
case of Inkscape, being able to read the instruction and look at the
picture was very helpful! I made sure not to speed through it either as
my main objective was to learn about the tool well enough to teach my
kid. Several minutes later my masterpiece was born:

[![Rocket](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/rocket-256x300.png)](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/rocket.png)

Ok, I must admit that after seeing my first graphic come out the way it
did gave my confidence a bit of a boost and I went back to
Screencasters, this time looking for something a bit more challenging.
That's when my daughter arrived and started asking me about the little
rocket she saw on the screen and if she could draw one too. Obviously
after one tutorial I was in no position to teach anyone how to use
Inkscape, but how do you tell an excited little kid to wait a couple of
days until she can play with her newly found toy? You can't, of course.
:) So we started looking for something fun to do and eventually settled
on the [Ice
Pop](http://screencasters.heathenx.org/blog/2010/01/24/episode-103-ice-pop/)
episode.

As I mentioned before, reading the rocket tutorial and having the
pictures to follow along was great, but now having a video that I could
pause, rewind and play at will was **awesome**! More importantly,
heathenx's didactic method is as close to having an instructor sitting
next to you as you can have! It's like I said, he's amazing!

Together, the **three** of us set out to draw a popsicle. Pause, rewind
and play, pause, rewind and play. With our eyes glued to the screen we
followed step after step, marveling at times at the many metamorphosis
our initial drawing went through. Ten minutes into it I was
unceremoniously asked to relinquish the mouse and keyboard, and before I
could even say anything, off she went on her own... my young graphic
designer.

From the kitchen I could hear her excitement as she progressed through
the tutorial and before I could even refill my cup of coffee she was
done! Smiling from ear to ear she invited me back into the computer
room, proudly displaying the result of her labor:

[![Popsicle](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/popsicle-173x300.png)](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/popsicle.png)

Well, needless to say that the next thing she asked me to do was to
install Inkscape in our "home" laptop. My daughter is now slowly
improving her skills and wants one day to apply them to create fashion
designs for her friends.

There are a bunch, and I really mean a bunch of web sites dedicated to
teaching Inkscape out there, but **Screencasters** has become a favorite
web site in the Maciel household.
