---

date: 2010-04-15
slug: |
  python-optparse
tags:
 - english, optparse, python, wordpress, xml
title: Command Line Tools with Python OptParse
---

[![image0](http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3237/2381346935_d6a6c92b63_m_d.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/pmtorrone/2381346935/)It
is not very uncommon for me to receive some code requests from friends
looking for a little help to "make something easier". I'm talking about
those pesky day to day things that after a while makes you go: "If I
could only push a button and have it done!"

This week I was chit-chatting with my good friend **Evandro Pastor**
when he mentioned one of these situations that, according to him, makes
his existence miserable. You see, Evandro is the brain, muscle and
talent behind [QuartoStudio](http://bit.ly/cqMwY0), "a small studio
located in the state of SÃ£o Paulo, Brazil" specialized in creating
websites and blogs for small to medium sized companies. We have worked
together many times on several different projects, and through the years
have become great friends.

Anyhow, Evandro was telling me how painful it is when a new client asks
him to migrate an existing web blog to a new host/domain and hands him a
tarball containing the exported content of a **WordPress** blog in
**XML** format. The problem resides on the issue that some web hosting
providers will limit how big a file can be uploaded via a POST method,
and depending on how big this XML file is, you may have to manually
break it into smaller files first.

So during my lunch break yesterday I took upon myself to create a script
that would do this for him so he wouldn't have to manually split files
and worry about making sure all the right tags were present and closed
appropriately. Of course I searched the web for a free/open source
alternative first but after several minutes later I still had not found
something that would do what he needed.

\"I'll just write one then!\", I said to my self. My first stop was to
read up on [lxml](http://bit.ly/c1Otx6) since I figured that using
something that could parse XML would be a better start than reading a
file and searching for tags within the file. Armed with this knowledge
and still enjoying the buzz from my freshly brewed cup of coffee, I set
out to write a couple of methods that take in a XML file, the number of
"chunks" you want to split it into, and I was done!

There was still a problem, however: Evandro would have to use the python
command line to do what he needed. Writing a command line tool then
became my next priority.

Since I have written command line tools in python before, my first
impulse was to copy some of the code I had already written somewhere
else and adapt it for this specific project... and so I did. Two minutes
later I had my first draft of a command line tool that could be invoked
from the shell the same way that *cp* or *ls* can. It was then that it
dawned on me that I had never really taken the time to really learn
about [optparse](http://bit.ly/aX3PmV), the "convenient, flexible, and
powerful library for parsing command-line options."

Of course, my first stop was to read through the "official"
documentation. I then did a bit of *Googling* around and was pleased to
find an amazing introductory [article](http://bit.ly/amtEtM) by
**Alexander Sandler**. If you have ever wanted to learn how to write a
command line tool and need to learn in detail about optparse, I highly
recommend his article to supplement the official documentation.

So Tuesday night, as I sat down to watch **Lost**, I added the finishing
touches to my script and was able to surprise Evandro with it the next
morning! Unfortunately this story does not have a 100% happy ending...
The script works as expected and it lets you configure how many "chunks"
to break the XML into, what tag to look for (defaults to
"/rss/channel/item") and what to name the generated smaller files.
However, since a post or comment can have embedded HTML tags, lxml is
converting them to HTML entities... aaaand **WordPress** doesn't like
that! Aaaand it turns out that the XML file generated by [WordPress is
not really XML](http://bit.ly/dleUnH) per se but its own WRX format. :/

Not everything is lost though. I did learn more about optparse and using
lxml to parse XML files! By the way, if anyone has some more information
on how I can make lxml ignore html tags, please drop me a line! :)
