---

date: 2010-04-16
slug: |
  from-the-better-than-sliced-bread-department-terminator
tags:
 - english
title: "From the \\\"Better Than Sliced Bread\\\" Department: Terminator"
---

\[caption id="" align="alignleft" width="240" caption="can i keep the
bag? by jek in the box"\][![can i keep the bag? by jek in the
box](http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3148/2885728186_75b4505400_m_d.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/jek-a-go-go/2885728186/)\[/caption\]

From the "better than sliced bread" department, I bring you
**Terminator**! No, not that
[terminator](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Terminator). This
[Terminator](http://bit.ly/aziWwM):

> "**Terminator** is a program that allows users to set up flexible
> arrangements of GNOME terminals. It is aimed at those who normally
> arrange lots of terminals near each other, but don't want to use a
> frame based window manager."

Basically, think about opening a single terminal (console) window and
then splitting it down the middle (vertically) to get now two separate
and independent terminals... and then splitting the left terminal
horizontally, giving you now three terminals... and then... well, you
probably get the drift by now.

\[caption id="attachment_915" align="aligncenter" width="300"
caption="Terminator 0.93"\][![Terminator
0.93](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/terminator-0.93-300x210.png)](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/terminator-0.93.png)\[/caption\]

But why would you want to split your terminal like this? I can't speak
for everyone but splitting the terminal allows me to be more productive
at work and at home, as I can perform several tasks in one single window
and see all of them at the same time. For instance, I can package
software in one console (upper left), watch my system's resource (upper
right) on another, and keep up with what's happening on IRC (lower) at
the same time!

Wouldn't you prefer **tabs instead**? Well, how about **both**?
Terminator can handle both tabs and splits, which can be very useful
when you're working on multiple things that require some level of
separation. For instance, you could have several terminals in one tab,
and a whole bunch of other terminals on a second tab dedicated to some
other activity.

At work I usually have several ssh connections open to several different
servers, running some [Fabric](http://bit.ly/dor4KJ) scripts in one
terminal while watching a log or two on other terminals. Sometimes I
want to run the same exact command interactively on several different
servers. For these scenarios a very nifty trick is the grouping feature
which allows you send the same text typed in one terminal to a group of
terminals.

For someone who is so addicted to custom keyboard shortcuts as I am,
Terminator offers a huge number of actions that can be performed without
having to move your hands away from the keyboard. I don't know about
you, but the less I have to use the mouse, the more productive I am!
Check out some of the things you can do:

**Ctrl+Shift+O**

:   Split terminals H**o**rizontally.

**Ctrl+Shift+E**

:   Split terminals V**e**rtically.

**Ctrl+Shift+Right**

:   Move parent dragbar **Right**.

**Ctrl+Shift+Left**

:   Move parent dragbar **Left**.

**Ctrl+Shift+Up**

:   Move parent dragbar **Up**.

**Ctrl+Shift+Down**

:   Move parent dragbar **Down**.

**Ctrl+Shift+S**

:   Hide/Show **S**crollbar.

**Ctrl+Shift+F**

:   Search within terminal scrollback

**Ctrl+Shift+N or Ctrl+Tab**

:   Move to **n**ext terminal within the same tab, use Ctrl+PageDown to
    move to the next tab. If **cycle_term_tab** is **False**, cycle
    within the same tab will be disabled

**Ctrl+Shift+P or Ctrl+Shift+Tab**

:   Move to **p**revious terminal within the same tab, use Ctrl+PageUp
    to move to the previous tab. If **cycle_term_tab** is **False**,
    cycle within the same tab will be disabled

**Alt+Up**

:   Move to the terminal **above** the current one.

**Alt+Down**

:   Move to the terminal **below** the current one.

**Alt+Left**

:   Move to the terminal **left of** the current one.

**Alt+Right**

:   Move to the terminal **right of** the current one.

**Ctrl+Shift+C**

:   Copy selected text to clipboard

**Ctrl+Shift+V**

:   Paste clipboard text

**Ctrl+Shift+W**

:   Close the current terminal.

**Ctrl+Shift+Q**

:   Quits Terminator

**Ctrl+Shift+X**

:   Toggle between showing all terminals and only showing the current
    one (maximise).

**Ctrl+Shift+Z**

:   Toggle between showing all terminals and only showing a scaled
    version of the current one (zoom).

**Ctrl+Shift+T**

:   Open new **t**ab

**Ctrl+PageDown**

:   Move to next Tab

**Ctrl+PageUp**

:   Move to previous Tab

**Ctrl+Shift+PageDown**

:   Swap tab position with next Tab

**Ctrl+Shift+PageUp**

:   Swap tab position with previous Tab

**Ctrl+Plus (+)**

:   Increase font size. **Note:** this may require you to press shift,
    depending on your keyboard

**Ctrl+Minus (-)**

:   Decrease font size. **Note:** this may require you to press shift,
    depending on your keyboard

**Ctrl+Zero (0)**

:   Restore font size to original setting.

**F11**

:   Toggle fullscreen

**Ctrl+Shift+R**

:   Reset terminal state

**Ctrl+Shift+G**

:   Reset terminal state and clear window

**Super+g**

:   Group all terminals so that any input sent to one of them, goes to
    all of them.

**Super+Shift+G**

:   Remove grouping from all terminals.

**Super+t**

:   Group all terminals in the current tab so input sent to one of them,
    goes to all terminals in the current tab.

**Super+Shift+T**

:   Remove grouping from all terminals in the current tab.

**Ctrl+Shift+I**

:   Open a new window (note: unlike in previous releases, this window is
    part of the same Terminator process)

**Super+i**

:   Spawn a new Terminator process

Want to take it for a spin? **Terminator** 0.93 was released yesterday
and is currently available for several different distributions and can
be installed using your system's package management tool. As always, I
made sure that my [distribution](http://bit.ly/bl4dBi) has it available
for our users! :)

**Hasta la vista dudes!**
