---

date: 2010-04-21
slug: |
  help-sponsor-mercurial-development
tags:
 - rpath
title: Help sponsor Mercurial development!
---

\[caption id="" align="alignright" width="240" caption="Mercurial is the
bee's knees"\][![Buzzy Bee by Louise -
Paisley](http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3066/2767731756_8523847ca0_m_d.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/louise-paisley/2767731756/)\[/caption\]

Anyone who has ever added a project to
[BitBucket](http://bitbucket.org/) already knows what
[Mercurial](http://mercurial.selenic.com/) is, but for those who have
never heard about it, "it is a free, distributed source control managemt
tool that can efficiently handle projects of any size and offers an easy
and intuitive interface." In other words, in the world of [Distributed
Version Control
(Systems)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Distributed_revision_control),
or DVCS or short, **Mercurial is the bee's knees**! This is not to say
that I don't like **Git** or **Bzr**, but when I have to recommend a
revision control solution to someone who just needs to get the job done,
I don't think twice! In my humble opinion, Mercurial is by far the
easiest and most intuitive of them all!

Prior to joining [rPath](http://rpath.com) (my very first job at a
company using Free and Open Source Software), I used a couple of DVCS
for work such as [Microsoft Visual
SourceSafe](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/aa302175.aspx) and
later [Subversion](http://subversion.tigris.org/), systems that you
wouldn't really consider to be ideal for doing distributed development.
When I was then introduced to Mercurial (you see, rPath is a huge
Mercurial and Python shop) my first reaction was: "here we go, yet
another system to learn!" But boy was I wrong! There are tons of good
documentation out there and I highly recommend "[Mercurial: The
Definitive Guide](http://hgbook.red-bean.com/)\" by **Bryan O'Sullivan**
and "[Hg Init: a Mercurial tutorial](http://hginit.com/)\" by **Joel
Spolsky**.

Today I happen to come across (can't remember how) this
[email](http://selenic.com/pipermail/mercurial/2010-April/031543.html)
from [Matt Mackall](http://mercurial.selenic.com/wiki/mpm), the primary
author and Mercurial project leader, that I just had to share here with
the readers of my blog.

I, for one, think that having someone work on Mercurial full-time would
do wonders for the project, so I'm hoping to talk about this again in
the very near future. In the meantime, and to borrow Matt's own words,
"if your company is a serious user of Mercurial or sells Mercurial-based
products or services, please consider accelerating Mercurial's
development."
