---

date: 2010-04-22
slug: |
  transifex-adds-new-features-wins-more-hearts
tags:
 - english
title: Transifex adds new features, wins more hearts
---

\[caption id="" align="alignleft" width="400" caption="Spring signs by
cuellar"\][![Spring signs by
cuellar](http://bit.ly/ctcTSh)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/cuellar/112165015/)\[/caption\]

It has been a great Spring for [Transifex.net](http://transifex.net),
everyone's favorite **open source** translation portal! Things felt a
bit quiet since their latest release, but the Transifex guys were
secretly working on some really nifty features!!! This Tuesday they
lifted their shroud of secrecy to reveal to the world these yummy new
features:

**Team Discussion Board**: Each translation team now has a discussion
board. *Get organized* better and more efficiently. No need to setup
separate mailing lists for each translation team! Just talk to each
other from inside Transifex itself and get informed when new messages
appear.

**Private Messaging**: Now users can *message each other* from inside
the Transifex system. Go to your
[inbox](http://www.transifex.net/messages/inbox/) and get in touch with
other translators and developers. Ask questions, get answers, ping
people.

![Private
Messages](http://blog.transifex.net/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/private_messaging.png)

**Maintainer announcements**: Maintainers can now use their Project
Discussion page to announce news and communicate with their translators
in a â€œ*forum*â€? style. Get in touch with translators, seek for new
contributors and so on.

![Announcements](http://blog.transifex.net/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/forum_announcements.png)

![Profile](http://blog.transifex.net/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/profile_changes.png)

**Nudges** are here! Visit your [favorite
profile](http://www.transifex.net/accounts/profile/korki/) and poke
other people if you want their attention (e.g. to tell a translator
â€œhey man, long time no see!â€?.

**Reviewing** feature has just landed on
[transifex.net](http://www.transifex.net/). Translators can send files
for review before actually committing them upstream. This allows
discussions to take place and voting for each contribution, which, when
accepted by a privileged user, will be pushed upstream.

Introducing **Hubs** with **sub-domain support**, HTTP redirections,
self operated project pool. For a live instance of this one check the
[MeeGo live hub](http://meego.transifex.net/). More about this in the
next weeks. A deep bow to our friends at MeeGo and Moblin for helping
out in so many valuable ways! =)

Updated **profile pages** to utilize the **private messaging
infrastructure** and also the **nudges**. Also we removed your email
from your profile page
![:)](http://blog.transifex.net/wp-includes/images/smilies/icon_smile.gif)

Improvements on the **\`automatic file language detection
\<http://blog.transifex.net/2010/04/guessing-languages-in-transifex/\>\`\_\_**.

**Project Releases**: Projects can now sport Releases, which aggregate
statistics both from the projectâ€™s own components as well as others.
Collections have been turned into normal projects, fully allowing a
maintainer to have the power to control releases.

Have you got a project hosted on BitBucket, SourceForge, Gitorious,
Google Code that needs some translations? Head on down to
**Transifex.net**, register your project, and **let a thousand languages
bloom**!
