---

date: 2010-04-26
slug: |
  coffee-a-personal-history
tags:
 - english
title: Coffee, a personal history
---

\[caption id="attachment_979" align="alignleft" width="240"
caption="Trader Joe's"\][![Trader
Joe\'s](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/traderjoe-300x231.png)](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/traderjoe.png)\[/caption\]

I first got hooked on drinking coffee back in the Spring of 1994 while
attending a **Microbiology** class at **Pace University**. Our class
started way too early for me and our professor (can't remember her name
right now) was this tiny old lady who barely raised her voice over the
decibel level that dogs can hear. The class and subject were very
interesting and by the end of the semester I felt very confident about
my laboratory skills (and developed a phobia about anything that was not
coated with some type of anti bacterial product).Â  But it was extremely
hard to stay awake listening to that monotonous voice that early... so
coffee became my best friend and probably indirectly responsible for the
good grade I received for that class!

Once that semester was over I dropped my coffee consumption to zero and
went back to obtaining caffeine from other sources, mostly from soft
drinks. I didn't really missed it at all and it wasn't until I got to my
last year and had to take **Physical Chemistry** that I became an avid
drinker. Obviously, as a college student I'd drink whatever brand of
coffee was being served at the cafeteria, but as time progressed and I
became a bit more in control of my own expenses, I started
"experimenting". By the time I got married I had established a good
relationship with **\`CafÃ© Pilon Espresso
\<http://www.javacabana.com/?p=catalog&parent=3\>\`\_\_**. For a while
it was the only coffee I bought for my house. I would every now and then
buy a cup of **StarBucks** coffee, but Pilon was the one that day in,
day out satisfied my caffeine need. I really enjoy a strong coffee, so I
became fairly addicted to it. Now, don't get turned off by the
**Espresso** in its name, as this coffee is super smooth with a rich and
flavorful taste that is sure to perk you up.

At work we usually drink [Counter
Culture](http://www.counterculturecoffee.com), a brand I had never heard
of until I moved here from **Northern New Jersey**. It was weird to me
that most engineers would prefer that over the bag of StarBucks coffee
sitting right next to it, but after having drunk Counter Culture for
over 3 years now, I believe my StarBucks fetish is over.

With the recent economic recession I had to look for cheaper
alternatives to Pilon for my house. Unfortunately not all of the
alternatives I tried passed my criteria for a good coffee: strong,
darkly roasted, not bitter and not acidic. That's when my wife suggested
we tried [Trader Joe's](http://www.traderjoes.com) dark roast coffee, a
couple of bucks cheaper and very promising with a great aroma. It didn't
take me very long to determine it to be the definite replacement for
Pilon: the very first cup was enough to convert me to a Trader Joe's
coffee drinker!

After hearing some of my co-workers bragging about [Peet's Coffee and
Tea](http://www.peets.com/shop/coffee.asp), I waited until my coffee
supply started to run low to have an excuse and ran down to the nearest
**Harris Teeter** to snag a bag of their
[Sumatra](http://www.peets.com/shop/coffee_detail.asp?id=42&cid=1004)
coffee. At US\$7.99 (discounted with a VIC card) I thought more than
twice before paying the cashier, but my curiosity (and the delicious
aroma coming from the bag) got the best of me in the end. It probably
won't be until Tuesday that I will try Peet's Coffee as I still have a
bit of Trader Joe's left in the house... and at US\$7.99++ a pop,
chances are I will still be drinking Trader Joe's for the foreseeable
future. I do however hope that I won't be disappointed at Peet's
Coffee... Maybe it could become one of those bottles of wine that you
only crack open for special occasions and that you drink on tall, wide
mugs and not on crystal glasses.
