---

date: 2010-04-27
slug: |
  a-pig-an-elephant-and-a-yellow-dog
tags:
 - english
title: A Pig, an Elephant and a Yellow Dog
---

From the "**Read a Book to a Child**\" department, I'd like to recommend
two **amazing books** that will be a sure hit for any kid, even the one
inside you!

\[caption id="attachment_969" align="alignleft" width="216"
caption="Watch me throw the ball by Mo Willems"\][![Watch me throw a
ball by Mo
Willems](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/watch_me_throw_ball_lg-216x300.jpg)](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/watch_me_throw_ball_lg.jpg)\[/caption\]

"[Watch Me Throw the Ball](http://bit.ly/9T4lIj)\" **An Elephant &
Piggie Book** by Mo Willems is a wonderful book! I simply love the way
Mo Willems writes the dialogs between Gerald, the always cautious and
pessimistic elephant and Piggie, an optimistic, lovable pig. This time
Piggie wants to show Gerald how he can throw a ball and have fun at the
same time, but Gerald is quick to tell him that to properly do that, one
needs lots and lots of practice and hard work. Best if read out loud,
there is no way your audience won't fall in love with these two
goofballs!

\[caption id="attachment_968" align="alignright" width="185" caption="I,
Jack by Patricia Finney"\][![I, Jack by Patricia
Finney](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/I_Jack-206x300.png)](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/I_Jack.png)\[/caption\]

"[I, Jack](http://bit.ly/bs5Ve1)\" by Patricia Finney is yet another
great book to read out loud to a child. It tells us the adventure of
Jack, a lovable yellow lab who falls in love with the dog next door.
Things gets complicated when puppies arrive and Jack gets split between
protecting his new \"pack leader\" and being a good dog to his family of
\"apedogs\". Told through the point of view of Jack himself, this book
will have you laughing out loud as you see what the daily life of a dog
could be like if you could only be a dog. The narrative is brilliantly
filled with visual effects and sounds, but don't take my word for it.
Check out [this free
chapter](http://browseinside.harpercollins.com/index.aspx?isbn13=9780060522094&cm_mmc=wgt-_-bi-_-vrl-_-biWidgetde29516f-1f0d-4d2b-bd99-a52057a7ec87)
and enjoy it!
