---

date: 2010-05-04
slug: |
  when-the-movie-is-better-than-the-book
tags:
 - english
title: When the movie is better than the book
---

\[caption id="attachment_1022" align="alignleft" width="264"
caption="Band of Brothers"\][![Band of
Brothers](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/05/bandofbrothers.jpg)](http://bit.ly/BandofBrothersBook)\[/caption\]

Over this past weekend I found just enough time to finish reading [Band
of
Brothers](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/074322454X/ref=s9_simh_gw_p14_i1?pf_rd_m=ATVPDKIKX0DER&pf_rd_s=center-2&pf_rd_r=18XEXBP3ARWNNFEEPQQV&pf_rd_t=101&pf_rd_p=470938631&pf_rd_i=507846)
by **Stephen E. Ambrose**, a book about the story of the men ofÂ **E
Company**, 506th Regiment, 101st Airborne, U.S. Army infantry. Back in
2006 **HBO** had turned this book into a 10-episodes mini series which I
avidly watched in one shot one day while visiting my friend
[Vinny](http://awkward-silence.com/wp/) in Massachusetts. He had a
pretty nice home theater system hook up at his place and since there was
nobody else around, we were able to watch it all with the volume turned
way up.

The book tells us the story about the men that formed **Easy Company**,
from the early days of their boot camp at [Camp
Toccoa](http://maps.google.com/maps?oe=utf-8&client=firefox-a&ie=UTF8&q=Camp+Toccoa&fb=1&gl=us&hq=Camp+Toccoa&hnear=Georgia&cid=0,0,14258077163452000680&ei=PFHfS4KvLp7k9AT3iIXYAQ&ved=0CAwQnwIwAA&ll=34.604283,-83.350911&spn=0.006764,0.013154&t=h&z=16&iwloc=A),
to their many missions through Europe including the **D-Day** invasion
of **Normandy**, the failed invasion of **Holland**, the **Battle of the
Bulge**, culminating with the capture of **Hitler's Eagle's Nest**.

Traditionally people say that books are usually better than the movies
that were based on them, so I had pretty high expectations about reading
it. The first chapter was quickly finished and I thought to myself,
"I'll be done with it before the week is over." Unfortunately, the next
following chapters didn't read as smooth as the first one, and my spider
senses started telling me that I was in for a not so pleasant surprise.
The entire book felt like reading a quilt of different stories that were
hastily put together from memory with several missing gaps sown in
between. Some paragraphs would start telling you a story in a tense and
the next one would totally change the flow to a flashback or a dialog,
leaving me hanging and wondering about what had really happened to the
original idea. It was a major turn off for me!

Despite all of this, I decided to finish the book with the hope that
something new that was not included in the HBO series would come up, but
that was not the case. This was definitely a case where the movie came
out better than the book and I have to tip my hat to producers **Steven
Spielberg** and **Tom Hanks** for doing a fantastic job at turning this
book into a masterpiece!

One thing about the story itself that impressed me was how most of the
survivors from Easy Company, once back in the US after the war, took
advantage of some of the programs the government offered to them and
went to college to pursue a higher education, some going on to become
very successful business man or instructors/teachers! Another
interesting point that was brought up by the book (and not as much in
the mini series) was how important **Captain Sobel**\'s rigorous and,
dare I say sadistic, training methodology played a major role into
shaping Easy Company into a well oiled war machine. The mini series only
portraits him as a petty, chickenshit slinging, tyrant-abusing character
but one could say that it was **because of Sobel** that Easy Company men
became the best of friends and were able to surpass every single
obstacle that the war threw their way!

If you asked me to recommend the book or the mini series? Go with the
mini series, no doubt about it!
