---

date: 2010-05-05
slug: |
  the-road-to-guadec-2010
tags:
 - english
title: The Road to GUADEC 2010
---

\[caption id="" align="aligncenter" width="350" caption="GUADEC
2010"\][![GUADEC
2010](http://bit.ly/Guadec2010Logo)](http://guadec.org/index.php/guadec/2010/index)\[/caption\]

This past April 16th I had the pleasure of receiving the following
email:

> Congratulations, your submission **Making easier for companies to give
> back to GNOME** has been accepted for presentation at GUADEC which is
> being held from 2010-07-26 to 2010-07-30 at Den Haag.

I was ecstatic!!! Having had the opportunity to attend **GUADEC 2009**
at **Las Palmas**, **Gran Canary** last year,Â  I was thrilled with the
possibility of attending my second one and presenting my ideas on how to
facilitate the collaboration between downstream and GNOME. There's also
the fact that this year the event will be held in the **Netherlands**, a
country that I have always wanted to visit!

I immediately started searching for airline ticket prices and was amazed
at just how expensive it costs to fly from the United States to the
Netherland: the average price for the round-trip is approximately
**US\$1700**!!! And that does not even include other types of
transportation, hotel or food!

Now, I'm sure that I could look for cheaper alternatives that may
include multiple stops and some crazy itineraries, but due to my
physical handicap, it just makes sense to pick the option that won't be
a burden for me and force me to run around multiple gates/airports
lugging my things on crutches. That, unfortunately, usually means more
money out of my pocket.

\[caption id="" align="aligncenter" width="500" caption="Can you spot me
in this picture?"\][![Can you spot me in this
picture?](http://bit.ly/OgGUADEC2009)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/mariosp/3700270001/in/photostream/)\[/caption\]

This brings me to my next issue, which is paying for my wife to
accompany me during this trip. My previous trips to European countries
have shown me that handicap accessible venues and accommodation also
cost more money than the usual "modestly priced" places. Who doesn't
remember the bathroom we had in our rooms while staying at the **Las
Palmas** "hotel" during GUADEC 2009?Â  Bringing someone to lend me a
hand is not optional for me, but a necessity!

So now the tally for the airfare alone is **US\$3400**! That's
equivalent to 2 whole months of mortgage for me! And remember, still no
food or hotel... What is a father of 2 who has just purchased his first
house to do?

So far I have applied for sponsorship with the **GNOME Travel
Committee** and am seriously considering asking friends and some of the
open source projects I have worked with in the past for their support. I
really feel that I have a lot to offer to both companies that want to
contribute more with GNOME, as well as getting GNOME to be more
"reachable" to them. Face to face interaction at events such as GUADEC
help tremendously to get people to not only listen to your ideas but
also to give you valuable feedback, so if at all possible, I'd really
like to be there!

Will I be able to attend and present my talk at GUADEC 2010? As of
today, it is still all pretty much up in the air...
