---

date: 2010-05-17
slug: |
  should-you-go-to-college-straight-out-of-high-school
tags:
 - english
title: Should you go to college straight out of high school?
---

\[caption id="" align="alignleft" width="240" caption="Should you go to
college straight out of high school?"\][![Free Macro Pink School
Notebook Spiral Creative
Commons](http://bit.ly/SchoolPost)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/pinksherbet/398992111/)\[/caption\]

Over the weekend I came across an interesting article in the **New York
Times** called "[Plan B: Skip
College](http://www.nytimes.com/2010/05/16/weekinreview/16steinberg.html?src=me&ref=general)".
According to the **Department of Education**, "no more than half of
those who began a four-year bachelorâ€™s degree program in the fall of
2006 will get that degree within six years." Even more shocking,
"fï»¿ï»¿or college students who ranked among the bottom quarter of their
high school classes, the numbers are even more stark: 80 percent will
probably never get a bachelorâ€™s degree or even a two-year
associateâ€™s degree!"

As disturbing as this numbers may be, I must confess that it didn't
surprise me at all. I realized a while back that ï»¿not everyone is
ready for college after high school! Heck, some may not ever be ready!

At 18-years-old I considered myself ready for the world. High school
graduation was only a few months away, and the crazy period of SATs and
college applications was well behind me. All of my 5 college
applications had been accepted and my school of choice,Â [Pace
University](http://www.pace.edu/pace/), had already sent me their
welcome letter and a package preparing me for my first semester.

My major wasÂ **Biochemistry** and for the next 4 years I experienced
first hand what it is like to attend a higher education institution in
the United States. I still remember the massive number of students who
had registered for **Chemistry 101** during my first semester as a
freshman and how impressed I was with the size of the classroom.
However, as the years progressed it became clear to me that my road was
not one of the most frequentlyÂ traveledÂ paths out there. By the time I
was a senior, classes with 5 or less students were a common thing.

Fast-forward a decade or so, and I am now a father of 2 little girls.
Among the many fatherly duties I (happily) perform, I'm very much
involved in the education of the future of the Maciel clan. Third grade
was a long time ago for me but I try my best to get up to speed with the
latest teaching trends to make sure I don't complicate things. I also
often meet with the teachers and basically try to make sure that my kids
have all the tools they need to have a good time at school. That is not
to say that I'm one of those parents who enroll their kids in every
single possible extra curricular activity in the book. I have a very
laid back policy with my kids and most of the time I leave it up to them
to decide what they want to do with their free time (the exception to
that rule is swimming classes to which I literally have to drag my
oldest every Saturday morning).

So through the years I came to the conclusion that when the time is
right and my kids start contemplating their future after high school, I
hope that my girls will have arranged for some internships during their
Summer breaks in the areas where they think they want to pursue as their
major. By then I also hope to be mentally prepared to encourage them to
go out and see the world a bit on their own. See different places,
people and experience different cultures, even if that may mean taking a
year off after high school!

Going to college is a pretty big decision for a lot of people, and at
around 18-years of age, it is no wonder many end up choosing something
they think is cool at that moment... only to see a couple of years down
the road that being a **nuclear physicist** is not exactly the chick
magnet you thought it would be (no offense to ï»¿nuclear physicists).

The thought of seeing my girls leave my house and start their own
journeys is something that gives me an empty feeling in the pit of my
stomach, but I guess I still have some time to get used to the idea that
eventually, all kids leave their home. Until then, I'll just keep on
doing my best to be a supportive dad and prepare them as much as I can
for the real world!

By the way, I did complete my Biochemistry degree and went on to pursue
a career as a scientist. Unfortunately my Bachelor degree wasn't good
enough to land me a good job after college, and to make a long story
short, my current job is not even remotely related to biochemistry, but
that is a story for another post. :)
