---

date: 2010-05-19
slug: |
  book-review-django-1-1-testing-and-debugging
tags:
 - english
title: "Book Review: Django 1.1 Testing and Debugging"
---

\[caption id="attachment_950" align="alignleft" width="243"
caption="Django 1.1 Testing and Debugging"\][![Django 1.1 Testing and
Debugging](http://bit.ly/dnPdPF)](http://bit.ly/DjangoTestingDebugBook)\[/caption\]

During this last weekend I finally managed to reserve a couple of hours
of "me time" to finish reading my complimentary copy of the book
â€œ[Django 1.1 Testing and
Debugging](http://bit.ly/DjangoTestingDebugBook)â€? from [Packt
Publishing](http://packtpub.com)!

Once again I felt completely absorbed by the style chosen for this Packt
Publishing book, as it makes use of a complete application to reinforce
all of the topics covered. You start with a brief explanation of the
benefits of testing your code and immediately start building a market
research application from scratch.

Every chapter is built on the previous one, covering topics such as
**doctests**, **unittests**, and adding coverage information and reports
via **Ned Batchelder**\'s
[coverage](http://nedbatchelder.com/code/coverage/) script. You also
learn about using Django's ï»¿ï»¿*django.test.Client* module and
[Twill](http://twill.idyll.org/) to perform web testing and make sure
that what your users see in their web browser is valid content and what
they expected.

I liked the fact that several chapters were dedicated to showing you how
to properly **debug**, **log**, **and understand the information**
collected by these methods. Also how to fix any issues that may come up
during the development phase, as well as write tests to catch them! I
have definitely learned several new ways to look at debug information
that I will make sure to add to my arsenal. Some of the tools you'll
learn include the awesome [Django Debug
Toolbar](http://github.com/robhudson/django-debug-toolbar) (I wrote
about it [here](http://www.ogmaciel.com/?p=874)) and even the [Python
debugger](http://docs.python.org/library/pdb.html) (pdb), so if you've
never heard of either one or need a refresher, you'll enjoy the last
chapters of this book.

By the time you're done reading this book, you'll have a complete market
researching tool, including some [Fancy
Nancy](http://www.fancynancybooks.com/) charts generated by
[pygooglechart](http://pygooglechart.slowchop.com/) or
[matplotlib](http://matplotlib.sourceforge.net/) AND instructions on how
to deploy it in a production environment and perform some load tests
using [siege](http://www.joedog.org/%20index/siege-home%20)!

Overall, this book offers good quality screenshots, clear and concise
directions and working source code to follow along! I recommend it for
anyone who's doing Django development out there and would like to
improve the quality of their applications by adding (more) tests!
