---

date: 2010-05-21
slug: |
  want-people-to-work-harder-give-them-an-innovation-bonus
tags:
 - rpath
title: Want people to work harder? Give them an innovation bonus!
---

\[caption id="" align="alignleft" width="240" caption="Can Money Buy
Your
Productivity?"\][![Money](http://bit.ly/MoneyPost)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/carowallis1/4442137934/)\[/caption\]

In [True
Motivation](http://awkward-silence.com/wp/2010/05/true-motivation/), my
friend **Vinny** pointed to a very interesting video byÂ [Dan
Pink](http://www.danpink.com/), "author of several provocative,
bestselling books about the changing world of work."Â This video talks
about how research has come up with key factors to make people happier,
successful and fulfilled: **Autonomy**, **Mastery** and **Purpose**!

Ok, this shouldn't really shock people, but how about this nice little
nugget: when it comes down to tasks that require cognitive skills,
offering more money as an incentive does not yield good results!Â So...
given a task where one has to use a bit more of one's gray matter,
offering a bigger reward did not guarantee success! Pretty interesting,
huh?

Toward the end of the video, Pink mentions how
[Atlassian](http://www.atlassian.com/) incorporated a process where
their employees were give one whole day every quarter where they could
work on anything they liked, with whomever they wanted, as long as they
showed the result of their work at the end of they day to the rest of
the company. Pretty much like a show and tell for professionals, with
food and drinks! The results were astonishing! Since they could work on
anything they wanted, the majority chose to fix their pet peeves about
their own product or to create new, cooler products!

This made me smile as I'm very used to the idea of a show and tell here
where I [work](http://rpath.org). At around **16:30** (thanks oot for
correcting me) every Friday the entire engineering gang gets together to
show off what they worked on during the week, drink their beverage of
choice (we even hold beverage elections every other month!) and just
catch up with the latest gossip from marketing. :)

Another interesting point: if your employees don't have to worry about
money, they can better focus on their work! I'm not saying that good
employees should be "bought", but oftentimes people will leave a company
if they can't make ends meet with their salary. It is not being a
mercenary but a reality of life!

Though his post is about contrasting these 3 factors against what he
calls "independent travel", I feel that video can be really useful for
managers who want to motivate and improve the environment of their
workspace! Go check it out!
