---

date: 2010-05-24
slug: |
  the-maze-runner
tags:
 - english
title: The Maze Runner
---

\[caption id="attachment_1080" align="alignleft" width="152"
caption="The Maze Runner by James
Dashner"\][![image0](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/05/MAZE_cover_final.jpg)](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/05/MAZE_cover_final.jpg)\[/caption\]

This past March I started a new routine to my Sunday mornings: shortly
after breakfast with the kids, I flip my laptop open and start reading
the [Books](http://www.nytimes.com/pages/books/index.html) section of
the [NY Times](http://www.nytimes.com) online. I wanted to get the real
deal, dead tree "version" of it for quite some time, but at **USD\$6**
just for the Sunday paper I figured that reading it online would have to
do it.

One of these Sundays I came across an article about [The Lateiner
Gang](http://thelateinergangbookreviewspot.blogspot.com/), "a family of
bloggers who spend most of their free time reading and reviewing". I
thought that was pretty cool and checked out their site and read some of
their books reviews. Among the many books they've reviewed one in
specific caught my attention: [The Maze
Runner](http://www.randomhouse.com/teens/mazerunner/home.html) by
**James Dashner**, a (to borrow a term I saw online) sci-fi dystopia
that shares some similarities with "[Lord of the
Flies](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lord_of_the_Flies)".

That afternoon I took my kids to the public library and decided to check
if they had it available, my curiosity getting the best of me. Turns out
that they did but the two copies they had weren't supposed to be
available for another couple of days. So I decided to put a hold on it
and moved on to look for history books, a topic that I have read more
and more these last few years.

Last Saturday I received an email from the library informing me that
"The Maze Runner" was available and waiting to be picked up. Some time
between chores and cleaning the house I swung by the library and finally
got the book.

At first I was a bit reluctant about reading it, specially due to the
huge "Young Fiction" label the library had put in its spine. It wasn't
because of the word "young" but I wanted something more mature and
didn't feel like reading "kid material"... no offense. Cautiously I
started reading it that afternoon, easily going through the first 10
chapters. "Hey, this is not bad", I thought to myself. So I decided to
give the book a chance to compete against the book I'm currently
reading, "**The Summer of 1787: The Men Who Invented the
Constitution"**by **David O. Stewart**. The plan was that I'd read it
only in the evenings before going to bed, while I'd continue reading
"1787" during my lunch break.

The story is about a kid who one day wakes up in a place without a
single idea of who he is or where he was. This place, called the
**Glade**, was inhabited by other kids who also shared the same
"amnesia" symptoms when they were mysteriously transported to it. After
a while some of the "veterans" established some rules and processes so
to keep things in order and avoid general chaos.

Our main character eventually learns that his name is **Thomas** and
that somehow he had been to that place before. He also learns that the
Glade is located smack in the middle of a gigantic maze with shifting
walls, infested by blob-like creatures with metal appendages that only
come out at night to the horror of the inhabitants. Every morning a
group of select kids, **Runners**, go out into the maze to try to map it
with the hopes of finding a way out.

As I started to approach the middle of the book, I found myself hooked
on the main plot and trying to figure out what would happen next. One
interesting thing I noticed was that Dashner's style kept reminding me
of â€œ[Emblem Divide](http://emblemdivide.wordpress.com)â€?, the book my
friend **Peter Savage** wrote.

Well, by Wednesday I found myself split between bringing the book to
work with me to read it during my lunch break or continue to read it
only in the evening. But I managed to keep the temptation at bay and
decided to take my time... today, shortly after breakfast I finished it!

The verdict: I'm glad I took the time to read it! The story kept me
wondering what would happen at the turn of every page and as I got
closer to the end, I often "felt bad" for finishing it so quickly,
already thinking that I would miss reading it once it was over. Have you
ever felt that way about a book?

Once I reluctantly put the book down, my consolation was that "**The
Maze Runner**\" is but book one of a trilogy, with the second book,
\"[The Scorch
Trials](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0385738757/ref=pd_lpo_k2_dp_sr_1?pf_rd_p=486539851&pf_rd_s=lpo-top-stripe-1&pf_rd_t=201&pf_rd_i=0385737947&pf_rd_m=ATVPDKIKX0DER&pf_rd_r=1PE9PB0WDTG58J93G0QK)\"
scheduled to be published this October!

I'm pretty sure I'm going to snag a copy of part two as soon as it
becomes available in our library! If you by any chance read this article
up to this point and are still interested in the book, check your local
library for "The Maze Runner". Should be a fun read for this Summer of
2010.
