---

date: 2010-06-04
slug: |
  emmas-very-busy-week
tags:
 - english
title: Emma\'s Very Busy Week
---

I'm the proud father of two voracious young readers! From very early on
I was able to instill into my daughters the pleasure of reading books.
They also happen to be girly girls, so while most kids ask for toys and
video games for their birthdays, mine ask for books and clothes/shoes!

During thirdÂ grade my oldest daughterÂ happened to pick up "[Emma's
very busy week](http://www.heatherdakota.com/4.html)\" by **Heather
Dakota** from herÂ school's library and just couldn't put it down! I
believe thatÂ throughout the entire third grade she must have borrowed
this book atÂ least **6 times**! As a young kid, I remember I could read
some books that I really enjoyed over and over, enjoying it every single
time as if I were reading it for the first time. She must have gotten
this from me. :)

So now with the Summer break fast approaching she has asked me to buy
her own copy of the book. Again, I usually get all of my books from the
public library but those I fall in love with, I just got to have them,
so she must have gotten it from me too! I sat down in front of the
computer and searched on **Amazon**, **Barnes and Noble**,Â **Borders**,
**Books on Press**, etc, but just could not find a single reference
orÂ a way to buy "Emma's very busy week".

So I did what everyone does when in doubt and spent some time 'Googling'
around until I came across **Heather Dakota**\'s [web
site](http://www.heatherdakota.com/index.html). Feeling that I
hadÂ already exhausted my options, I figured I'd drop her an email
andÂ see if she could help us find a place where we could buy the book.

That same day I was pleasantly surprised to receive an email from
Heather with a generous offer: she happened to have an extra copy of the
book at her house and asked me if I'd mind if she sent it autographed to
my daughter! Better yet, she was meeting the illustrator the very next
day and said she would also get it autographed!

IÂ profusely thanked her for the offer and decided I would not break the
news to my daughter and see howÂ Â she would react when she received the
package in the mail.

\[caption id="attachment_1102" align="aligncenter" width="300"
caption=""Emma's very busy week" book"\][![\"Emma\'s very busy week\"
book](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/06/dscn0262-300x225.jpg)](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/06/dscn0262.jpg)\[/caption\]

Needless to say, she was in heaven when she received the package
yesterday!!! The book was promptly devoured while I took my dog to
training class and she's planning to read it again today!

Thank you Heather for making my daughter's day! I thank you from the
bottom of my heart and we are all looking forward to your next book!
