---

date: 2010-06-23
slug: |
  review-django-1-2-e-commerce
tags:
 - english
title: "Review: Django 1.2 E-Commerce"
---

\[caption id="attachment_1094" align="alignleft" width="243"
caption="Django 1.2 E-Commerce"\][![Django 1.2
E-Commerce](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/05/Django-1.2-E-Commerce-243x300.jpg)](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/05/Django-1.2-E-Commerce.jpg)\[/caption\]

"[Django
1.2 E-Commerce](http://www.packtpub.com/django-1-2-e-commerce-build-powerful-applications/book?utm_source=ogmaciel.com&utm_medium=bookrev&utm_content=blog&utm_campaign=mdb_003454)\"Â starts
with a very ambitious goal: design, develop and deploy a functional
ecommerce web site for the fictional **CranStore.com** company. Sounds
great, doesn't it?

I started flipping through the usual introductory pages explaining what
**Django** is and why use it for a project like this. It was all fairly
brief which already led me to believe that knowledge of Django's inner
works and basic setup and configuration was required to follow along.

Well, the instructions are not as streamlined as other programming books
I've read and it could be fairly tricky to follow the examples and logic
if you're not already familiar with how Django works. There are several
typos in the example code as well, mostly due to missing spaces between
the commands and arguments. Adding to the confusion is the style the
author chose to deliver his explanation of specific code changes,
displaying snippets of code that will leave the reader wondering what
specific file is being discussed.

Now, if none of these things sound scary to you, you'll be happy to know
that the project itself is fairly well designed and worth your time. It
was also the first time I saw an example of integrating Django with
**Google Checkout** to set up a "shopping cart" mechanism, and by the
time you're done with the second chapter, you will have a very basic but
functional ecommerce web site.

The subsequent chapters were a blur, talking about adding external
modules and services to enhance your site's searching capabilities as
well as exposing the data from your "store" via APIs and generating
reports with **ReportLab**. The author also talks about making use of
javascript to add that **AJAX**-y feeling that we've come to expect of
most modern sites and how to take advantage of **S3** storage to sell
your product.

The last chapter finally walks you through a few different ways you can
deploy your final project to the world out there. I thought it was
interesting to see **Fabric** being mentioned as a driver for
deployment, as I have been playing with it at work to help me perform a
series of tests on several different hosts for QAing purposes. Come to
think of it, this may have been the first time I've seen it mentioned in
a book, so I'm glad that this project seems to be picking up steam.

Overall, even with the issues of poor proof checking of the source code
and the "everything and the kitchen sink" approach to the first
chapters, if you're not new to Django and need to get some ideas on how
to design and develop an ecommerce website, you may want to check out
this book. I give it 3 out of 5 stars.
