---

date: 2010-06-24
slug: |
  gnome-board-of-directors-first-meeting
tags:
 - english
title: "GNOME Board of Directors: First Meeting"
---

\[caption id="attachment_1152" align="alignleft" width="300"
caption="First GNOME Board Meeting"\][![First GNOME Board
Meeting](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/06/340305918_6413d10fcc_z-300x225.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/jonjon_2k8/340305918/)\[/caption\]

Today I attended my very first **GNOME Board of Directors** meeting.
Though I won't be able to vote on issues until July 1st, it was great to
witness how the process works and be able to ask questions and receive
answers directly from current and former board members.

I must say that the entire meeting felt very streamlined and ran
smoothly, partially because of people like
[Vincent](http://www.vuntz.net/journal/),
[Brian](http://blogs.sun.com/yippi/),
[GermÃ¡n](http://blogs.gnome.org/gpoo) and
[Paul](http://www.paulcutler.org/blog) who seem to be on top of
everything and juggling several balls at the same time!
[Stormy](http://stormyscorner.com/) must sleep very well at night
knowing she can count on people of this caliber to steer the project.

[Emily](http://blogs.sun.com/emily/) and
[Bastien](http://www.hadess.net/), new members like myself, also made
their presence felt by asking questions and getting involved in some
topics that were discussed. I asked Â a few questions myself and tried
to absorb as much as possible, juggling work and the action taking place
on **Gobbi** and IRC.

I feel bad for not being able to attend **GUADEC** this year as I'll
probably be the only Board member not to be present... but I am looking
forward to working with these guys and gals and fill the shoes of those
who are departing this year!
