---

date: 2010-06-29
slug: |
  more-coffee-noise
tags:
 - english
title: More Coffee Noise
---

\[caption id="attachment_1129" align="alignleft" width="300"
caption="Coffee Cup"\][![Coffee
Cup](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/06/coffeecup-300x237.jpg)](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/06/coffeecup.jpg)\[/caption\]

A while back I [wrote](http://www.ogmaciel.com/?p=976) about how I first
got hooked on coffee and received some really good comments and
suggestions for new coffees to try. I was immediately attracted to one
coffee in particular: [Zoka](http://www.zokacoffee.com/)! Don't ask me
what it was but there was something about the name that tickled my
fancy. So I sent their customer service department an email and asked if
they would send me a few samples. The very next day I received a reply
and the promisse that they would send me a couple of bags. Since I had
also received 2 other bags of coffee from friends to try I figured I'd
report here how the "coffee experiment" went.

Now, I don't pretend to be an expert or a connoisseur and my oppinion
here is nothing but, well... my own oppinion and is not meant to
influence what brand of coffee you should buy. I just enjoy drinking
coffee and hope you'll find this useful.

\[caption id="attachment_1130" align="aligncenter" width="300"
caption="The Great Coffee Experiment"\][![The Great Coffee
Experiment](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/06/2010-05-17-19.08.27-300x225.jpg)](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/06/2010-05-17-19.08.27.jpg)\[/caption\]

[Zoka](http://www.zokacoffee.com/)\'s coffee arrived at my doorstep a
few days later on a Friday afternoon. With names such as "**Costa Rica
Calle de Copey**\" and \"**Tangletown Blend**", the two neatly packed
bags of whole beans looked very organic-y. The neat label in the front
telling you when that specific bag was put together was a nice touch,
almost like someone took their time to hand pick the coffee beans and
gently places them into the bag (and it smelled great too!).

I first tried the "**Costa Rica Calle de Copey**\" with its promisse to
deliver a rich, fruity flavor. After grinding (espresso) enough coffee
for my wife and I and impatiently waiting for the brew, we were both
impressed with the strong flavor of melon and hints of lemon! I mean, I
usually drink my coffee black with sugar (though I've drastically cut
down on how much sugar I'm using now) and am not too fond of fruity
coffee. Maybe because most of the time fruity coffee is a bit too acidic
for me. I must say however that I was not put off by this blend and I
can see myself drinking it out on the back porch after dinner.

The next day I decided to try "**Tangletown**\" for breakfast and was
very pleased with the experience! Tones of chocolate and caramel seem to
balance the acidity for a robust cup of coffee! I'm talking about great
smooth flavor with an almost chocolaty ending! Needless to say I am now
hooked and will need to find a place to buy my next one! As I mentioned
before I still have 2 more bags of coffee to try and am very much
looking forward to trying these 2 Brazilian blends: \"**Caboclo**\" and
\"**CafÃ© TrÃªs Pontas**"! Until then, feel free to drop me a line with
more suggestions or comments. Also, if you come across a bag of
"Tangletown", don't hesitate to buy it! :)
