---

date: 2010-08-11
slug: |
  book-review-python-3-object-oriented-programming
tags:
 - english
title: "Book Review: Python 3 Object Oriented Programming"
---

\[caption id="attachment_1171" align="alignleft" width="243"
caption="Python 3 Object Oriented Programming"\][![Python 3 Object
Oriented
Programming](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/08/python3objectoriented-243x300.jpg)](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/08/python3objectoriented.jpg)\[/caption\]

I can't claim to have looked hard for a **Python** book on **object
oriented programming** (OOP) but I was immediately attracted to the
title of this book. Sure, you can find small tutorials here and there
about some specific facet of OOP but I don't recall ever reading
something that covers designing public interfaces using abstraction,
encapsulation, etc, etc with good and practical examples! If you have,
please drop me a link in the comments. :)

[Python 3 Object Oriented
Programming](http://www.packtpub.com/python-3-object-oriented-programming/book/mid/040810bbki4w?utm_source=ogmaciel.com&utm_medium=bookrev&utm_content=blog&utm_campaign=mdb_004105)
by **Dusty Phillips** does a very decent job of not only introducing the
reader to the terminology and the object oriented paradigm (something
that is not too complicated to understand) but also offers a
comprehensive step-by-step guide that will take you from theory to a
real world project. I've always felt that anyone can pick up a book
about programming and learn its syntax by heart. But putting it all
together and designing something that will actually work is something
that you usually learn by reading other people's code or, if you're
lucky enough, from a mentor. Overall I felt that the book was well
written with a great selection of sample code. Whether you already know
how to do object oriented programming for other languages or are new to
the whole concept and want to learn everything about it, I definitely
recommend this book!

Make sure to check the free chapter ï»¿ï»¿([Chapter No.7: Python Object
Oriented
Shortcuts](https://www.packtpub.com/sites/default/files/1261-chapter-7-Python%20object-oriented-shortcuts.pdf)).
