---

date: 2010-08-26
slug: |
  running-on-empty
tags:
 - english
title: Running On Empty
---

\[caption id="attachment_1185" align="alignleft" width="240"
caption="Running on epty"\][![Running on
epty](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/08/3340658838_c421fd5737_m.jpg)](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/08/3340658838_c421fd5737_m.jpg)\[/caption\]

This post has been sitting in my *Drafts* folder for a while now, as I
wasn't sure when the right time would be to publish it. It is basically
my personal reflection on the last 5 years I have worked doing
translations for free and open source software (FOSS) and a few lessons
I learned along the way. It is also a rant against those who took my
labor for granted. Hopefully this quick summary will help you decide
whether you want to continue reading the rest of the post or not.

My adventures in the translation (or localization) world started some
time in the middle of **2005**. I had just started using **Ubuntu** as
my main distribution and being carried away by the buzz and excitement
surrounding this new comer, I started looking for ways to "give back".
Not that I hadn't tried it before, but to tell you the truth, Ubuntu had
back then the only friendly and welcoming community out there that
wouldn't treat you with scorn and arrogance if you were a new user.

Eventually I got to learn about the **Ubuntu Brazil** team and their
effort to translate the desktop applications into the **Brazilian
Portuguese** language. Now, I've been living in the **United Stated**
for about 2 decades now and technological terms and jargon in Portuguese
had never really entered into my vocabulary. In other words, I had
absolutely no idea how to say things like "**hard drive**", "**File**",
"**Copy**, or anything really in Portuguese. But I was determined to
lend a helping hand and proceeded to learn on my own and by asking
around.

Now, this is not a post about Ubuntu, so I'll fast forward a bit to the
time I became the **coordinator** for the Ubuntu Brazilian Translation
team and was "in charge" of getting this massive collection of
applications translated into Brazilian Portuguese before every single
release. It was hard work but at the end of the day it felt great to
know that more Brazilians would be able to enjoy **GNU/Linux** in their
native tongue. Heck, under my leadership we **delivered several
releases** of Ubuntu with very high levels of translations and
absolutely **no thank you** from those profiting from out work!

After a couple of years I started to feel pretty good about my
background in the software translations world. Filled with the best of
intentions and the whole "Ubuntu" philosophy, I approached a few
upstream translation teams to offer some help and see if our team could
lend them a hand. Oddly enough, most refused my offer which only made me
more confused. If they were struggling to get to 100% translations, why
would they refuse help from "seasoned translators" such ourselves?

After organizing a few **IRC** meetings where many didn't show up, some
of the **GNOME Brazil** guys decided to give me a chance and hear my
proposal. In the end we settled on the following plan: We, the "Ubuntu
guys" would provide the labor (our team was much bigger than all other
teams put together), and the GNOMErs would tell us what to do, how to do
it, and tell us to "do it over" if our work did not conform with their
standards. If this sounds a bit one sided to you, it's because it was.
There was some unexplained hostility towards us that we could not
understand. Some of the members of my team eventually excused
themselves, telling me in private how frustrating the whole experience
was. "We're breaking our backs here and they treat us like garbage,"
said a disgruntled translator. This was in 2006.

This same type of treatment followed us wherever we went. Always the
unprovoked hostility and unwillingness to work together. It wasn't until
around the middle of **2007** that someone finally broke the silence and
told me: "**You guys got the heart in the right place, but did you know
that nothing that you have ever translated for Ubuntu comes back our
way?**\" I didn't know what to say. \"What do you mean?\" We're good
guys... the whole World benefits from our work... doesn't it?\"

Turns out I had been mistaken about the benefits of doing translations
for a distribution. Turns out also that a lot of upstream translators
who are not Ubuntu users (and therefore do not have an account in
**Launchpad**) also have strong feelings against the work being done by
the "Ubuntu guys". But instead of channeling their ill feelings toward
the entity that designed the machinery, their anger fell on the
translators, peons in the whole scheme of things.

I'm glad to say that I woke up from theÂ stuporÂ that had held me for
quite some time in a state of delirium and even **fanboyism**. Yes,**I
was an Ubuntu fanboy** not too long ago! I too drank from the koolaid
and was a major source of **free PR** and goodwill for **Canonical**. It
was early 2007 when I finally moved on and decided to work directly with
the upstream projects, embracing a new world full of opportunities and
chances for someone as dedicated as myself.

Boy, was I wrong about certain things! For a long time the stigma of
having done translations for a distribution stuck to me, causing many
unnecessary discussions and personal attacks from people who I had never
met or heard before. Worse of all, the internal interests and political
agendas within the smaller groups was very harsh and no matter how many
packages I translated or how many hours I spent organizing, teaching,
reviewing and translating massive documents, I was never given
theÂ acknowledgement by my peers or anyone for that matter. Did you know
that **GNOME 2.26** was literally translated by **two** people into
Brazilian Portuguese? And that one of them was yours truly?

But I kept going for a long time, choosing to ignore all of these things
and focus in the main cause: deliver a completely localized operating
system for those who speak Brazilian Portuguese. Through the years I saw
coordinators and committers being replaced by people with no background
what so ever in translations or even from outside the team! There has
always been intrigue and malicious interests in pretty much every
community out there, but I had always hoped that one day my hard work
would be recognized and aspired to one day become the coordinator for
the GNOME Brazilian team. Alas, that day never came.

But I kept going and joined several other teams who received me with
open arms. For quite some time I was the **sole translator, reviewer and
committer** for **Xfce**, **LXDE**, and **Openbox**. I even joined the
effort to localize **MeeGo** and make it upstream friendly. Whatever
free time I managed to get my hands on was spent either translating,
reviewing or committing translations to these projects (and GNOME, off
course). Even while juggling a brand new career with a steep learning
curve, a second child, moving to a different state and seeing my bank
account dwindle down, I still made the time to keep going.

Until I ran out of gas! This morning I have chosen to **step down** as
the **coordinator** for the LXDE and MeeGo teams and have already passed
this position to one of my teammates. I am also stepping down as the
**administrator** of these 2 teams in order to **focus** on my
**family** and some of my **pet projects**. I will eventually pass the
coordination of the Xfce team as well and will only act as a member of
said teams, offering a helping hand every now and then (this already
applies to GNOME).

This does not mean that I'm no longer involved with the localization of
free and open source software. It only means that I'm now sitting on the
backseat and am happy to let someone else drive. It also means that I
feel unappreciated and even though the thought that every single GNOME
user who runs his/her system in Brazilian Portuguese is doing it because
of the fruit of my labor and others makes me feel very proud, the truth
is that it does not put food on my table.

I have to finish this post by publicly thanking **Margie Foster** from
the MeeGo project for being the only person who has shown appreciation
and gratitude for the work I've done! Really, thank you!
