---

date: 2010-11-01
slug: |
  ending-another-chapter
tags:
 - english
title: Ending Another Chapter
---

\[caption id="attachment_1231" align="alignleft" width="225"
caption="Farewell"\]**\|Farewell\|**\[/caption\]

Woke up this morning to find the following email in my inbox:

**Renew membership of Og Maciel in Ubuntu Members**

It's been a while since I last thought about this membership so this
email had me thinking for a bit. Ubuntu is where everything started for
me, and even though I have not seen eye to eye with **Canonical**, I
harbor no ill feelings toward the distribution itself.

So for the last 5 years I've been associated with the Ubuntu ecosystems
and dedicated a large chunk of my time trying to get the distro properly
translated into **Brazilian Portuguese** and doing a lot of advocating
along the way. I even got to attend the very first **UDS-MTV** and meet
some of those guys and gals I had spent so much time talking/working
online. It was a bitter sweet moment and an eye opener, as I was able to
see first hand the direction that the distribution was heading to. Not
too long after that I started moving away from my involvement, resigning
from several groups I had belonged to to a very minimum core
associations.

Why I kept the Ubuntu Members membership for the past 3 years is a bit
hard to explain in a few paragraphs, so I'll save it for another time. I
guess I had hoped that things would be a bit different and that Ubuntu
would indeed become the contender for making sure that FLOSS projects
would be first citizens in their plans. I also hoped that all of my hard
work and the ground work I laid out for my successors would be
acknowledged but it seems that the past has been forgotten by all.

So in 6 days my membership will expire and with it the last thread still
connecting me to Ubuntu will expire. I will remove my blog from Ubuntu
Planet (I can hear a few cheers already for I have deliberately been
harsh towards the directions Canonical has taken the distribution) and
all of my efforts will be directed at helping the **GNOME Foundation**
and the **GNOME 3.0** release.

So, farewell to those who kept in touch and those who stood by me
through the years. I wish you all nothing but the best and hope to bump
into you at one of these FLOSS conferences one of these days.
