---

date: 2010-11-30
slug: |
  when-hard-work-pays-off-rbuilder-5-8-for-linux-and-windo
tags:
 - rpath
title: "When Hard Work Pays Off: rBuilder 5.8 for Linux and Windows"
---

It's been a while since I last wrote anything here, mainly because I
have been working very hard on a very cool project for work that I can
now finally talk about it. **\`rPath \<http://www.rpath.com\>\`\_\_**,
the place where I have been working for the last 4+ years has just
[announced](http://blogs.rpath.com/wpmu/rpath-technical-announcements/2010/11/30/rbuilder-58-for-linux-and-windows/)
the release of **rBuilder 5.8**, bringing "**model-driven,
version-controlled system automation deeper into the enterprise with
active inventory management and support for Windows**".

\[caption id="attachment_1244" align="alignleft" width="300"
caption="Workload Chart"\][![Workload
Chart](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/11/workloadchart-300x241.png)](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/11/workloadchart.png)\[/caption\]

For the last couple of months I have been neck deep in testing our
product and our brand new support for **Windows** (several flavors) and
encapsulated **Linux platforms**, and as you can see from the chart, I
have been a busy bee! It has been pretty hectic and crazy juggling all
of the moving parts that need to be tested and the holidays and all of
the things related to the end of the year... but we pulled it off!
Everyone has stepped up to the plate and delivered on time for the
release! I'm extremely proud of all the team work and effort put into
it!

So, if you haven't seem me around or felt that I wasn't paying attention
to your emails or messages, now you know why. Trust me when I tell you
that it was well worth all the late and long hours spent at the office
and **rBuilder 5.8 is smoking hot**! Go read the official
[announcement](http://blogs.rpath.com/wpmu/rpath-technical-announcements/2010/11/30/rbuilder-58-for-linux-and-windows/)!
