---

date: 2011-01-11
slug: |
  kindle
tags:
 - english
 - kindle
 - books
title: Kindle
---
![Kindle DX](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/01/4205159532_76ba5831af-190x300.jpg)

Over the holidays I got a second-hand **Kindle DX** from my
[sister](http://www.productpasha.com/). As I have been doing some
[serious reading](http://www.ogmaciel.com/?p=1254) these last couple of
years, an **EBook** reader was something that both excited and scared me
at the same time. Let me explain.

Being able to carry several books, often pretty thick and heavy, in one
simple and light device has its advantages. Add to that the **massive
number of free EBooks and regular plain text books** available on web
sites such as the [Internet
Archive](http://www.archive.org/details/texts), [Open
Library](http://openlibrary.org/), [Project
Gutenberg](http://www.gutenberg.org/wiki/Main_Page), and all of a sudden
we're talking about having your own private and portable library on the
go! Even [Amazon.com](http://amazon.com) has several [classic
books](http://www.amazon.com/gp/redirect.html/ref=amb_link_40669842_101?_encoding=UTF8&location=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.amazon.com%2Fs%2F%3Fnode%3D2245146011&token=3A0F170E7CEFE27BDC730D3D7344512BC1296B83&pf_rd_m=ATVPDKIKX0DER&pf_rd_s=center-5&pf_rd_r=0JHKXGTZSV0D2B7PFQ8B&pf_rd_t=101&pf_rd_p=1276331502&pf_rd_i=2245146011)
completely FREE of charge for those who have a **Kindle**!

The "scary" part, however, is that I actually like the "feel" of paper
between my fingers as I flip the pages of a good book or while I peruse
a newspaper. Call me old fashioned, but I've been reading the "old way"
for too long and certain habits are hard to change. There's also the
fact that,  (I wonder if other EBook Readers vendors do the same?) if
Amazon decides to recall a book that is already legally paid for
and downloaded in your Kindle, they can "reach out" and remove it
whenever they feel like it. That alone prevented me from buying a Kindle
and the only reason I now have one is because it was a gift. Talk about
a conflict of interests!

So as I drove home after the holidays and spent the night at a hotel
somewhere in Northern Virginia, I proceeded to fill up my device with
books and explore its features. The first thing I did was install
[Calibre](http://calibre-ebook.com/) in my netbook. Since I'm running
bleeding edge [Foresight Linux](http://www.foresightlinux.org) I was
able to get a fairly new version installed (and later on that same week
the latest version was available) and off I went to manage the Kindle.
Also, as I keep most of my EBooks in a
[Dropbox](https://www.dropbox.com/home) directory, adding them was piece
of cake!

I must say that the built in **New Oxford American Dictionary** and the
possibility of getting the definition of the words from the page you're
reading in one second is very, very handy! There's also an experimental
**Text to Speech** feature that I haven't tried yet but could totally
take advantage of one of these days. Oh, the **battery lasts forever**
and even though this is not the super small and light **Kindle 3**, it
still weighs close to nothing!

Almost 2 weeks later and I have already read **2 books** and am
currently working on my third for 2011, a bit ahead of my goal of
reading **52 total books for the year**! I feel that I am reading a bit
faster now and not straining my eyes as much as before. I still miss
holding a real book every afternoon when I take 1 hour to read. I also
haven't been to the **Public Library** this year yet but that aspect is
not going to change as it has become sort of a Sunday ritual for our
family.

I figure that I may start blogging about the books I read from now on
and provide a small review for anyone interested out there, so expect my
first **book review** for "[The Hunger Games (Part 1)](http://www.amazon.com/Hunger-Games-Book-1/dp/0439023521/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1294760218&sr=8-1)\"
 fairly soon!
