---

date: 2011-01-13
slug: |
  book-review-the-hunger-games
tags:
 - english
title: "Book Review: The Hunger Games"
---

\[caption id="attachment_1279" align="alignleft" width="212"
caption="The Hunger Games"\][![The Hunger
Games](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/01/cover-212x300.jpg)](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/01/cover.jpg)\[/caption\]

> **\*Disclaimer**: My book reviews are my own impressions from my daily
> readings and are by no means "sponsored" or "influenced" by any
> company, organization or individuals. I don't even get money through
> any referral program, so rest assured that my review is not biased. If
> you do, however, want me to review a book for your company or
> organization, feel free to contact me via the comments section and we
> can work something out. :)\*

Ever since I started reading the "[The Maze
Runner](http://www.amazon.com/Maze-Runner-Trilogy-Book/dp/0385737955/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1294867243&sr=8-1)\"
trilogy (I'm still waiting for the third and final book to come out),
people have often mentioned about another **sci-fi dystopia**-like book
that I'd enjoy reading and how I should make a point of reading "[The
Hunger
Games](http://www.amazon.com/Hunger-Games-Book-1/dp/0439023521/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1294867793&sr=1-1)\"
by **Suzanne Collins**. So shortly after getting my **Kindle DX** I went
out and got all three books that make up this trilogy: [The Hunger
Games](http://www.amazon.com/Hunger-Games-Book-1/dp/0439023521/ref=pd_bxgy_b_img_c),
[Catching
Fire](http://www.amazon.com/Catching-Fire-Second-Hunger-Games/dp/0439023491/ref=pd_bxgy_b_img_b),
and
[Mockingjay](http://www.amazon.com/Mockingjay-Final-Book-Hunger-Games/dp/0439023513/ref=pd_bxgy_b_img_b)!
Sounds a bit rushed, but I was convinced that I would not regret it.

"**The Hunger Games**\" is the story of  a postapocalyptic **United
States.** The entire country has pretty much crumbled to pieces and the
remaining population gets together and form the new country of
**Panem**, divided into **13 districts** and governed by the **Capitol**
(sounds like the original **13 colonies**, doesn't it?). Some time
during the early years of this newly formed nation, those living in
**District 13** revolt against the Capitol's politics and in the ensuing
civil war that follows the entire district and its inhabitants are
blasted to smithereens! To top it off, as a way to prevent the other
districts from attempting any type of revolution, the Capitol comes up
with their own version of a **reality show** where 2 inhabitants from
each of the remaining districts are selected to compete in the Hunger
Games, a sadistic event where competitors are pitted against one another
in a free for all combat and televised 24-hours/day with live
commentary, interviews and gambling. That is where we find **Katniss
Everdeen**, one of the main characters from the mining district 12.

Turns out that **Prim**, her younger sister, is the female
representative selected from district 12 but due to the rules of the
game, she gets replaced by her older sister Katniss. Katniss is not your
standard heroin and you will either love her right away or turn your
nose against the way she deals with real life. Together with **Peeta**,
the male representative from 12, they get shipped to the Capitol
escorted by a mentor, a coach and stylists supposed to turn them into
mean, lean, ready-for-tv gladiators. It is pretty obvious to Katniss and
Peeta that people from the Capitol view the Hunger Games as some sort of
game though the reality is far from it and the only way to "win" is to
be the last person standing.

Eventually all of the competitors are dumped into a secluded, top of the
art, booby trapped arena where alliances and enemies are created and
destroyed every minute. As the game progresses and the number of living
competitors decrease, we find Katniss and Peeta not only working
together but also pretending to be madly in love with each other in
order to attract sponsors who can send them special packages of much
needed food or medicine to be used during the game. The love scenes are
mixed here and there and there is a subtle but nevertheless ever
presence of a sexual context whenever Katniss and Peeta "play their
role" to the cameras.

In the end, against all the rules, Katniss and Peeta both make it alive
only to see the promise that they could both win the competition taken
away by the game organizers. That is when Katniss tosses a wrench into
things and decides that it is better to die together with Peeta than to
go on knowing that one of them had to die in order for a champion to be
crowned. Seeing this double-suicide attempt, the game organizers quickly
intervene and declare both participants winners of the 74th edition of
the Hunger Games.

This would be the end of the book and this story, but as this is a
trilogy, something must happen to allow for a second book, right? Well,
you'll have to wait for my next review to find out what happened. :)

Now that I have given you a very quick rundown of the plot, here is what
I thought about the book. First off, the story is definitely for a much
younger audience and I often debated whether I should stop reading the
book or just plow through it. Don't get me wrong, I can see how someone
much younger and looking for a quick and easy futuristic adventure book
sprinkled with a bit of romance would enjoy this book. But compared to
"**The Maze Runner**\" or, to kick things up a notch, \"[For The
Win](http://www.amazon.com/Win-Cory-Doctorow/dp/B004E3XII0/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1294872952&sr=8-1)",
this book was very bland and failed to really capture me completely. I
felt that the main characters often acted/behaved much older than their
background allowed for and the final product was something that left
much up in the air. Katniss was supposed to be a good hunter from her
days of hunting rabbits and squirrels on district 12 to feed her family.
But going from that to someone considered to be a valiant and brave
fighter is a bit of a stretch.

Even with all of these things going against it, I chose to read the
second book, [Catching
Fire](http://www.amazon.com/Catching-Fire-Second-Hunger-Games/dp/0439023491/ref=pd_bxgy_b_img_b),
because I wanted to give **Suzanne Collins** another chance and see if
she could win me over. Until my next review...
