---

date: 2011-01-17
slug: |
  announcing-foresight-linux-2-5-0-alpha-1-gnome-edition
tags:
 - english
 - foresight
title: Announcing Foresight Linux 2.5.0 ALPHA 1 GNOME Edition
---

After a very, very, very long time I can finally announce another
[Foresight Linux release](http://wp.me/pEMZT-ao)! We have gone through a
lot of changes and it took us a while to rebuild our
developer/maintainer/user base, but here we are! The goal is to go back
to having a rolling release schedule and keep bringing the latest and
greatest mix of GNOME and applications!

\[caption id="attachment_1284" align="aligncenter" width="300"
caption="Localized (Swedish) screenshot of Foresight
Linux"\][![Foresight
Linux](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/01/FL-desktop-2-300x187.png)](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/01/FL-desktop-2.png)\[/caption\]

It was about 4+ years ago that I first started using [Foresight
Linux](http://www.foresightlinux.org) as my one and only Linux
distribution and I can honestly say that I have never regretted this
decision. I'm also very proud to still be involved with the organization
of our small but dedicated team and I'd like to thank you all for
sticking around and helping maintain our awesome distribution!

Some of my favorite applications have been updated to the very latest
versions, such as **Banshee** 1.9.2 (always built from repository),
**Calibre** 0.7.37 , **Chromium** webbrowser 9.0.597.55, **F-Spot**
0.8.2, **Firefox** 3.6.13, **Git** 1.7.3.4, **Hotot** (always built from
repository), **Inkscape** 0.48 , **Mercurial** 1.7.2, **OpenOffice.org**
3.2.1.6+m19, **Pidgin** 2.7.9, **Shotwell** 0.7.2, **Terminator** 0.95,
**Tomboy** 1.5.2, **Vim** 7.3.050 and many others!

Tired of using that same re-spin of that old Linux distribution? Give
[Foresight Linux](http://www.foresightlinux.org) a try!
[Download](http://www.foresightlinux.org/download/) it today!
