---

date: 2011-01-24
slug: |
  because-your-distro-should-be-cool
tags:
 - rpath
 - foresight
title: Because Your Distro Should Be Cool!
---

It is with my **Community Manager** hat and as a **Linux enthusiast**
that I bring you this post about the [Foresight Linux](http://www.foresightlinux.org) distribution, literally born and
brewed where I work and filled to the brim with the technology developed
at **rPath**. However, this is not yet another article about yet another
Linux distribution with arguments about how great it is compared to
other popular ones out there. No siree Bob! In fact, if you are happy
with the platform or distribution that you are running, then kudos to
you! I will not bore you to tears comparing lists of packages, what
kernel or why you should drop everything you're doing and grab a copy of
[Foresight](http://www.foresightlinux.org). **No**
([32-bit](https://www.rpath.org/downloadImage?fileId=42755&urlType=0))!!! **No**
([64-bit](https://www.rpath.org/downloadImage?fileId=42767&urlType=0))!!!
For a while Foresight was indeed a **trail blazer** and if you wanted to
get the latest and coolest applications or features for Linux, that's
where you'd go! But nowadays I feel that a lot of the popular
distributions are pretty much shipping the same set of things plus or
minus a feature here or there.

![The many faces of Foresight Linux](http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2444/3621581862_e90009822a.jpg)

Instead, I'd like to tell you about a couple of nice features I came to
grow very fond of after having run **Foresight** as my main distribution
for the last 3 years. My intention is not to convert anyone but to share
something things I find extremely cool and that may be of your interest
as well!

**Reason 1 - Rolling releases**: Because Foresight is based on a
"rolling release" schedule, you don't have to wait 6 or 12 months to get
your hands on new features or applications! Sure you could download the
source code and compile it yourself or even trust that package that a
friend of a friend told you to install, but I'm talking about having
something that is completely managed by the underlying package
management system! Most of the time new applications are available
within days of being launched as it passes through some spot checking
and QA.

**Reason 2 - Roll backs**: Because the entire system is kept under a
complete version control down to the file level, It is possible to
perform something that other distributions can only dream of: **system
roll backs**! Don't like the application you've just installed? Remove
it and it will be as if your system never had it installed! Want to go
back to the update you ran **3 weeks** or even months ago? Not a
problem! Your system is like a giant **Git/Mercurial** repository and
you control what to clone and what branch to checkout.

**Reason 3 - The Conary Package Management System**: this is the pixie
dust that makes **Foresight** and **rPath**\'s products run! Created
from the ground up to be the **next generation of package management
systems** and to provide a platform to create a **true distributed
versioning environment**, [Conary](http://wiki.rpath.com/wiki/Conary) is
definitely worth your time! Prior to using it on a daily basis, I could
never have imagined that I would be able to package anything (software)
in my life, let alone try to create and maintain a distribution! With
its **Pythonic** style and syntax-like, writing up a "recipe" for an
application is extremely easy to do!

**Reason 4: Small crew**: Foresight is formed by a bunch of very, very
enthusiastic group that really enjoy developing and maintaining a cool
system! That means that we're small enough to have an almost family-like
relationship and all help out in whatever task needs to be done. That
also means that we're most of the time shorthanded and have a lot of
things being worked by one single person! Some people may find this to
be a hindrance but I like to see it as a great chance to get involved
with an open source project! Do you want to maintain a package? Want to
impress the world with your artistic skills? Is documentation your
thing? There are very few hoops to jump through and you will learn a
whole lot about Linux and running a distribution! What can I say, we are
a small team that just love what we do!

I think I should also mention that most of our discussions or even
support happens via the irc channel (**\#foresight** and
**\#foresight-devel** on **Freenode**) and [mailing lists](http://lists.rpath.org/mailman/listinfo/foresight-devel), but you are guaranteed to find a courteous and helpful bunch. It is very captivating, trust me!
