---

date: 2011-02-02
slug: |
  book-review-emblem-divide
tags:
 - english
 - books
title: "Book Review: Emblem Divide"
---
![Emblem Divide](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/02/emblem-divide-cover.png)

> **\*Disclaimer**: My book reviews are my own impressions from my daily
> readings and are by no means "sponsored" or "influenced" by any
> company, organization or individuals. I don't even get money through
> any referral program, so rest assured that my review is not biased. If
> you do, however, want me to review a book for your company or
> organization, feel free to contact me via the comments section and we
> can work something out. :)\*

Approximately about 1 1/2 years ago I had the opportunity to lay my
hands on "[Emblem Divide](http://emblemdivide.com/)", a book written by
my good friend Peter Savage. If I remember correctly, it had been a long
time since I had last read science fiction, so I viewed that as a good
opportunity to try something different. The plan was that I would read
it and provide some feedback in exchange for being able to read his book
first hand.

I read the first 10 chapters  on my computer during lunch break (I was
given a PDF) and honestly, I had a hard time focusing on the story due
to the fact that I was very much used to reading in a quiet place and
the computer provided a constant source of distraction. I'd find myself
reading a paragraph and before I realized I'd be checking my RSS feeds
or replying to someone on IRC. After the 10th chapter I decided that I'd
give the book another try once I had a way to read it away from the
computer. Now that I have a **Kindle**, I got a mobi format of the book
and started reading it from the start last week.

"**Emblem Divide**\" was written through the course of 6 years and
unfortunately you can see that the gaps between writings have made the
first chapters feel a bit disconnected. You can \"feel\" how the
author's writing style and prose change from chapter to chapter and
there were a few contradictions here and there, but eventually Peter
gets on a nice groove and starts telling us the story of **Oken Brown**.
In this not so far future, the world has undergone a series of massive
changes in its political organization and society lives in a constant
state of fear ever since the Temporal War of 2028. It is also a world
where Global Temporal Enforcement Programme, or G-TEP, keeps an eye on
anyone who wants to tamper with time travel and use it to change the
outcome of the future.

Through a lot of reading and researching on his own, Oken learns how to
design a temporal device that allowed him to slow down time.
Furthermore, due to his participation in an underground fighting club,
he embeds this device into **Bethany**, his fighting ninja sword and
uses it to completely obliterate his opponents during their weekly
tournaments. Life looked to be in favor of Oken for a while, specially
when he meets **Jay** and falls head over heels for the inquisitive
aspiring reporter during one of his fights. But not everything was well,
off course, and unbeknownst to Oken the G-TEP is tipped off by an
unlikely enemy and is planning to take him down as soon as they can
catch him red handed.

The story itself is very well thought out and I could totally see it
become a mini movie. There are several plot twists and flashbacks to
keep your mind wondering about what the next chapter will bring.
However, I felt that the characters were not properly developed and I
often found myself trying to figure out why some characters acted the
way they did. It's almost like you're introduced to a caring and loving
character who, completely out of the blue, turns into a major quantum
physicist and solves a hairy problem in the story and then goes back to
being his old self. There are no explanations before or after the event
as to how this person knows so much about physics or its background. By
now you should all know that I'm all about fully developed characters.

This review may sound a bit on the harsher side but I feel that it is my
obligation to provide my readers with an unbiased review.  The plot is
very interesting but the characters could use a bit of a background
boost. In the course of writing the 50 chapters that make up "Emblem
Divide", Peter's style gets stronger as the story progresses and by the
end you can see several glimpses of his hard work paying off! If you're
interested in checking his book, Peter has made it freely accessible in
his [blog](http://emblemdivide.com/). He has also started working on his
newest project, **Alchemy Reigns** which you can follow
at [alchemyreigns.wordpress.com](http://alchemyreigns.wordpress.com/)

By the way, there is a character in "**Emblem Divide**\" that was named
after me! How cool is that? :)
