---

date: 2011-03-07
slug: |
  life-at-rpath-4-years-and-counting
tags:
 - rpath, north carolina, chapel hill, weaver street market, conary
title: "Life at rPath: 4+ Years And Counting"
---

[![The
Road](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/03/roadmap.png)](http://www.ogmaciel.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/03/roadmap.png)

It was around the end of 2006. Having spent most of my life living in
the New Jersey - New York axis and close to my family, I bought a
one-way ticket to [RDU](http://www.rdu.com/), packed my bag (yeah,
**one** bag) and came down to **North Carolina** looking for a new job.
Leaving my wife (who was expecting our second child) and young daughter
while I went "job spelunking" wasn't easy for me, but I was determined
to quit the rat race once and for all!

The first couple of days were spent hanging out at **Weaver Street
Market** and the coffee joint at the **UNC** book store, reading all the
local newspapers and trying to network with the locals as much as I
could. By the end of the second day I was invited for an interview at a
**Duke** research department, but other than that, there wasn't much
going on yet.

On the fifth day depression and frustration set in. I also missed my
wife and kid a lot... My sister, who back then was finishing her Masters
and lived in **Chapel Hill**, convinced me to attend a poetry reading
session early in the morning. I figured that I needed to clear my mind a
bit and poetry was probably a good way to do that. But I also knew that
I couldn't let myself be depressed for too long, so I convinced her to
accompany me to my very first [TRILUG](http://www.trilug.org/) for a bit
more of networking.

Right around noon I received an email for another job interview... but
in **New Jersey**! Now, it's true that I wanted to make North Carolina
my new home, but when your money reserve starts to dwindle before your
eyes, beggars can't be too choosy. As the interview was scheduled for
the following Monday, I bought a plane ticket back to New Jersey for
Friday evening so that I could spend another day looking for a job
before returning home for a few days.

The decision to drag my sister to attend that Thursday's TRILUG meeting
proved to be one of those lucky strikes that life throws at you every
now and then. I don't remember what the main topic that night was, but I
remember meeting [Daniel Chen](http://drowninginbugs.blogspot.com/) and
the conversation that, little did I know, would turn my life completely
upside down. It was Daniel who said:

> Since you want to work with **Open Source** and Python, you should
> send your cv to the guys at [rPath](http://www.rpath.com)...

... and so I did...that same night... at around 11pm... The very next
day I got up at 8am and there was a reply in my INBOX from **Ken
Vandine** from rPath, asking about my availability for a phone interview
that same day. We settled for a phone call at 9am which, turns out,
would lead to an invitation for an interview at their office in
Raleigh... **Monday morning**! As I couldn't cancel my plane ticket
without paying a steep fine AND not feeling totally comfortable with
cancelling the interview in Jersey that same Monday, we decided to
schedule it for Tuesday at 8am.

I flew back home with renewed energy and even though my bank statement
showed a scarily low balance, I bought another ticket back to RDU for
the last flight out of NY Monday evening, right after my interview. The
interview itself went really well, but deep in my heart I was looking
forward to chatting with the rPath folks. One interesting thing that
came out of the Monday interview was that for the very first time in my
life I felt the power that having a blog in a highly visible news
aggregator can do for you: at the end of the interview I was told that
some of the engineers knew of me from my blog and my advocacy for Ubuntu
(yeah... I was young and inexperienced)... and wanted to meet me! So I
was "paraded" in their engineering area like a rock star, shaking hands
and exchanging information. A very interesting experience for sure.

From my interview I drove straight to **LGA** (or was it **JFK**? Can't
remember...) and waited forever for my flight that got delayed several
hours due to a storm system that had settled over RDU. By the time I
arrived back in North Carolina, it was almost 1am Tuesday and I was
hungry, tired and with a pounding headache. Around 4am I finally fell
asleep only to be awaken by the alarm clock at 6:30am. Shaving, shower
and a quick breakfast was followed by a (always) tranquil commute to
Raleigh, where rPath's HQ is located.

The interview process was a grueling, 3-4 hour long marathon, where I
was interviewed by several different individuals (I remember **jtate**,
**yeliaB** and **bpja**... maybe **msw**, **smerp** and **dugan**?)
asking me varying questions of equally varying levels of difficulty.
When I was done, I felt exhausted and almost missed my exit on my way
back to my sister's modest 1-bedroom apartment. I had barely plugged my
laptop and gotten on IRC when I received a message from **kenvandine**
inviting me to meet **Erik Troan**, one of rPath's founders, the
following morning. I immediately accepted it, knowing really well that
it would be the final and decisive interview, one "for all the marbles"
as they say.

My meeting with Eric was all but what you'd expect from a "last stage,
meeting the CEO" interview. At 8am sharp, in walks Eric wearing Bermuda
shorts, a t-shirt, flip-flops, sipping on a apple juice box (like those
we give to kids) to greet me and escort me into his office. For the next
35 minutes, Eric comfortably settled on his chair with both of his feet
resting atop the desk, we talked about beer, coffee, travelling and
Europe... in other words, everything but the job itself. And just like
that, he got up, shook my hand, thanked me for coming in and walked me
out of the office. I was dumbstruck!

Not knowing what had just happened, I called my wife in Jersey and I
remember telling her: "Have I got the job? I have absolutely no idea
what just happened, but if he is planning to open a bar of coffee place
in Europe, I may have a shot!" This easy going and relaxed atmosphere
would be a constant reminder for me for the years to come that companies
should make sure that their employees feel welcome and comfortable at
work if they want productivity and loyalty.

When I got back to my laptop at the UNC coffee place, I had a job offer
from the place in Jersey (they would send me another email 1 hour later
cancelling their offer, citing a technical glitch from their part that
made the previous email get sent erroneously) and **an offer from
rPath** via IRC!

**On October 2nd, 2006** I walked into my current job at rPath and what
has proven to be a life changing experience. As someone I know recently
said, an awesome roller coaster ride with more twists, turns and air
time than I could ever have dreamed of! Early on, for the most part, it
felt like drinking from a fire hose as I struggled to switch to a fast
paced startup environment and using an enormous variety of different
technologies and tools from those I had grown used to at my previous
employers. Through the many ups and downs that we've gone through, one
constant has remained with me at all times: my unfaltering, unshakable
commitment to the company, to its goals and my love for
[conary](https://secure.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/wiki/Conary_(package_manager)),
their next generation software package management system.

The culmination of this love/passion is the birth of my personal pet
project, [Conary Recipes](http://www.conaryrecipes.com/), a web site
compendium of conary "recipes" for those who, like me, understand and
appreciate the beauty and power that a conary-managed system can offer
to power users, and want to learn by example how to leverage it to
package software for their own use. It is also a place where seasoned
packagers can show off their skills and let other people vote for their
favorite recipes!

[Conary Recipes](http://www.conaryrecipes.com/) is the fruit of my
adventures into the wonderful world of **Django** and is brought to you
thanks to the hard work of [Ely√©zer Mendes
Rezende](http://elyezer.com/), [Evandro
Pastor](http://www.quartoestudio.com/web/) and [Pawel
Pogorzelski](http://blog.pawelpogorzelski.pl/), who willingly jumped at
my invitation to work on my new project and selflessly devoted their
free time to help me get it off the ground! As we're still working out
the kinks and workflow for the web site, access is by **invitation
only** until we feel that we're ready for public usage. If you're truly
interested in taking the site for a spin and helping us improve the
overall user experience, [drop me a
line](http://www.conaryrecipes.com/contact) and I'll get you started.
Also, feel free to file bug reports or feature requests using our
[issues tracking system](https://bitbucket.org/omaciel/souschef/issues).
