---

date: 2011-05-27
slug: |
  20-years
tags:
 - english
title: 20 Years
---

![20 Years](http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3526/3205109490_b518510438_d.jpg)

Tomorrow marks the **20th** year that I have been living in the United
States. Not to use an old cliché, but it definitely feels like it wasn't
too long ago that I embarked on the greatest and most dramatic adventure
of my life: at the young age of 16 (only a handful of weeks shy of my
17th birthday) I said goodbye to most of my friends back in the small
town of [Conceição da Barra, Brazil](http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&hl=en&geocode=&q=Concei%C3%A7%C3%A3o+da+Barra,+Brazil&sll=35.930614,-79.030687&sspn=0.013691,0.015428&ie=UTF8&hq=&hnear=Concei%C3%A7%C3%A3o+da+Barra+-+Esp%C3%ADrito+Santo,+Brazil&t=h&z=10)
and got on a plane with my youngest sister bound to **New York City**.

In order to understand the impact of this event on my life, allow me to
take a step back and explain what it was like for someone who had never
traveled outside of his own country to find himself "dropped" in the
middle of a place like the Northeast of the United States.

**Conceição da Barra** was the place in Brazil where I spent my teenager
years and experienced all that comes with them. It was the place where I
fell in love and also where I had my heart broken for the first
time (and many times after that and after that). It was the place where
I learned to socialize, go out dancing, drinking, getting in trouble and
really understand what it means to be alive and have friends! It's where
I learned to enjoy watching the sunsets and the warmth of a bonfire by
the beach, listening to **Led Zeppelin**, **Dire Straits**, **Pink
Floyd** and enjoying good company. It is also the place where I saw my
family's economical situation deteriorate and got a very good look at
what poverty feels like. But if I were to summarize what the last 5
years I spent in that tiny beach town encroached in the Southeast of
Brazil meant to me in a simple sentence, it would be: It's the place
where I had the most amazing childhood!

Assuming that my previous description gave you a good glimpse at what my
life had been until then, allow me now to bring you to the day before I
got on that plane. Even though I knew the day of my departure, nothing
can prepare you to say goodbye to those who shaped your life, specially
those whom we call best friends or those who have gotten a "strong hold
on your heart"! How can you say goodbye to the friend who spent most of
his days with you, going through the same experiences, happy moments,
aches and all? How can you tell the girl you're in love with that you're
leaving and has absolutely no idea (if) when you'll ever return? The
answer is, you just can't prepare yourself and have to do the best that
you can.

So I spent my last day in Brazil looking for friends and family and
telling them that I was leaving to the United States where my parents
already were awaiting for me. Since I had not told anyone about this
plan, imagine the look on their faces when I dropped the news! Some
people cried and hugged me really hard... some didn't believe me and
thought I was joking... others, who heard the news (in a small town like
Conceição da Barra, news travel really, really fast) from others before
I could get to them, chose not to see me for they couldn't face the fact
that we would not see each other again. Out of those who fit this last
criteria, the ones I wished I had had a chance to talk to before leaving
were Alexandre, my friend and brother-in-arms, and Andréia, my
platonic infatuation/love. To this day I'm yet to see them and tell them
how much it hurt me not being able to talk to them that last day...

Eventually I made my way to the United States, landing on **JFK** in a
sunny May 28th morning together with my younger sister. Our parents
picked us up at the airport, and after the initial feelings of relief
and happiness for seeing them (I had not seen them for about 1 month and
was pretty much in charge of my younger sister), the next few weeks were
all a blur of new sights, sounds, places and people. Since neither one
of us spoke a word of English, this experience was the equivalent of
taking someone from the smallest, most rural and disconnected town in
the world and then dropping him by parachute in the middle of
**Moscow**! Everything, and I mean **everything** was different from
what I was used to. Chewing gum, shampoo, cars, streets, food, trees,
birds, sports, you name it! Also, everywhere I turned there was this new
language being spoken, broadcast on the radio, television or printed on
magazines and newspapers!

Ahhh and how much I missed my friends... There wasn't a day that I
didn't think of them, or what they were doing at that exact time. As a
mater of fact, for a long time I lived my life split between my old
stomping grounds and my newly adopted country, almost never here but
always there, imagining what it would be like to share my experiences in
this new "alien" world with them... tell them how cool baseball really
was when you knew all the rules and got to follow the **Yankees** on
**MSG** every day... how beautiful the **Empire States building** is
from the **Palisades Avenue** in **Cliffside Park**... how people would
toss perfectly working and even new items in their garbage outside
because they had gotten a newer model/replacement... and how much my
life sucked without being able to talk to people and make new friends...

By September my parents enrolled me in the local high school as a
junior. My first day's experience was an event that left pretty deep
scars that took a while to completely heal. I had no idea what my
schedule was, that I was supposed to change classes between periods, and
that people could be so mean when they found out that you didn't speak
English. Worse of all for that day was being ostracized by the few
Brazilians I encountered also attending the same high school. I clearly
remember on that first day during my lunch period walking into a packed
cafeteria and the relief I felt when I saw the 2 girls who were
Brazilian (I was told by my guidance council) among all the other
strangers... and the frustration and disappointment I felt when they
told me I could not sit down with them. Turns out they were also trying
to fit in and didn't want people hearing them talking to another kid in
a language other than English. For the next 4 months I ate lunch by
myself in a table all the way by the corner of the cafeteria.

I remember one Saturday morning being awoken by my guidance council on
the phone asking me why I wasn't at school to take my **SATs** (SA
what???)? So I showed up, not really knowing what I was supposed to do
or why I had to take a test in math and English. With my 2+ months of
do-or-die English knowledge but my far superior knowledge in math and
without any type of preparation, I managed to score a **1040** on my
SATs (640 in Math, 400 in English out of 1600 possible points all
together). Throughout the years I also managed to join the **High School
Honors Society**... **twice!**And had an **A average** in all of my
classes during those 2 years of high school. As a matter of fact, due to
my A average on all subjects, I was exempt from taking my finals as a
senior! Not bad for someone who got dropped into a new culture 2 years
before, huh?

Even with all of these achievements I was still viewed by my peers as a
foreigner and someone who did not belong. Every now and then a teacher
or even a guidance council would remark on how someone like us,
foreigners, were so good at learning things so fast despite of our
background. Back then and even today those remarks still sound like they
were amazed at 'how someone so inferior to them in all aspects could
pick up "tricks" so fast'. I'm pretty sure that some of those remarks
were responsible for a good number of kids dropping out before
completing high school or even from going to college or a higher
education. Eventually I graduated from high school and went on to earn a
B.S. in **Biochemistry** and many more new adventures. But these will
have to wait for another post, I'm afraid.

When I look back at all of these experiences I can't help but feel glad!
Now that I am older and **father of 2 beautiful girls**, I can totally
appreciate my childhood and what happened during those years. It is
because of these experiences that I learned to appreciate the decisions
and sacrifices that my parents made and appreciate the things I've
achieved along the way. Here's to the adventures that are sure to come
for the next 20 years!
