---

date: 2011-07-18
slug: |
  summer-cleaning
tags:
 - english
title: Summer Cleaning
---

\[caption id="" align="alignleft" width="333" caption="Summer
Cleaning"\][![Summer
Cleaning](http://farm5.static.flickr.com/4098/4950442535_3d0e9a7b7d_d.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/ladymixy-uk/4950442535/)\[/caption\]

After debating for the last couple of months about re-organizing my two
blogs into a more intuitive (perhaps logical even?) format, I finally
took advantage of some down time over the weekend and made a few
changes. From now on, [www.ogmaciel.com](http://www.ogmaciel.com) will
no longer be my blog written in **English**, but instead will serve as a
"business card/window" into my world. My "English" blog is now hosted on
[en.ogmaciel.com](http://en.ogmaciel.com) and my "**Brazilian
Portuguese**\" blog lives on [pt.ogmaciel.com](http://pt.ogmaciel.com).

If you happen to maintain one of the blog aggregators (aka "planets") I
kindly ask you to update my feed as follows:

-   [Journal of an Open Source](http://en.ogmaciel.com) (**English**):
     <http://feeds.feedburner.com/JournalOfAnOpenSourcee>
-   [Open Source Guy](http://pt.ogmaciel.com) (**Brazilian
    Portuguese**): <http://feeds.feedburner.com/OpenSourceGuyPosts>

One more thing I did over the weekend was to change my email signature
to no longer include "**GNOME Board of Directors**". Sometimes I catch
myself remembering that wasn't too ago that I dreamed of joining the
Board and making a difference... I feel that I learned a lot about the
**GNOME** project as a whole, as well as about a lot of the people
behind it. I didn't fulfill all of the things I wanted to accomplish
(work, real life and a bit of inexperience got on the way of things some
times) but I sure hope that people will appreciate the things I did get
done. In the end I chose not to run for re-election because the time is
just not right for me, but I don't rule out running again in the near
future.

Anyhow, **update your feeds** and best of luck to the new **GNOME Board
of Directors**!
