---
category: |
  Portuguese
date: 2011-07-21
slug: |
  castalio-podcast-three-times
tags:
 - english
 - podcast
 - castalio
title: Castálio Podcast, or Three Times is a Charm
---

![Castálio Podcast](http://farm6.static.flickr.com/5149/5574058090_18863ca261_d.jpg)

The idea of doing a **podcast** is something that has tickled my
\[STRIKEOUT:curiosity\] fancy for quite some time. As a matter of fact,
I am already the **survivor** of 2 other mildly successful attempts,
which sadly, died prematurely due to commitment issues from my partners
and my inability to record and edit audio using Linux.

About 6 months ago the need to scratch this itch came back in full
power, and thanks to the support of my friend **Evandro Pastor**,
[Castálio Podcast](http://www.castalio.info/) was born! Instead of
getting together with a couple of friends and discussing about
technology and current events, I wanted to do something a bit more
different and avoid the typical routine by turning it into a talk
show-like interview program. Every other week I'd invite someone from
the **Brazilian** Free and Open Source world and have a chat about their
childhood, upbringing, and the tv shows, movies, books and music that
shaped them into who they are now. To quote my good friend **Kurt**, it
would be "*the equivalent to opening a friend's MP3 collection and
seeing what that person was like*"! :)

Shortly after we recorded our second or third episode, Evandro who not
only served as the host (while I chatted with our guest) but also
recorded and edited the audio, had a severe case of **tendinitis** and
was not able to participate anymore. Once again I was faced with the old
dilema of not having anyone else to run a podcast or to record and edit
it... but this time I didn't want to see another attempt of creating a
podcast die a premature death... I had too much vested already on it!

So for the last 6 months I've been interviewing, editing, publishing and
maintaining the podcast during my free time and having a blast! So far
all of my guests are Brazilians and the podcast itself caters for the
Brazilian and/or Hispanic audience, but an episode in English is in the
works for the very near future. Through the 12 episodes I've recorded so
far I had a chance to chat with some really interesting, fun and
exciting people, such as [Igor Soares](http://igorsoares.com/) (**Fedora
Embassador**), [Lucas Rocha](http://lucasr.org/blog/) (**GNOME** and new
**Mozillian**), [Johan Dahlin](http://blogs.gnome.org/johan/)
(**Stoq**), [Diego Zacarão](http://diegobz.net/) (**Transifex**) and
many others who totally opened up themselves to me (and our followers).
I learned a lot from these chats and was inspired by their stories of
success, failure, innovation and adventures!

Did you know that **Johan** is a **Swede** but lives in Brazil and
speaks fluent Brazilian Portuguese? That **Lucas** used to be part of
a **Guns and Roses**, **Metallica**, **Iron
Maiden** and \**Nirvana*\* cover band when he was only **13-years-old**?
During the many hours spent talking to my guests I learned about their
likes and dislikes, what books and music they enjoy, and indirectly
became more acquainted with the real person behind the IRC nick/email
address!

I'm really glad I decided to continue with this project and didn't give
up early on. You'll be glad to know that Evandro is recovering from his
tendinitis and may be able to drop by one of these days. The next 2
episodes are already recorded and more guests are scheduled to talk
about their passions and projects on different topics, including
**arduino** and writing books! If you know someone whom you'd like to
learn a bit more about their story, drop me a line or a comment and
hopefully I'll be able to schedule something.

Here's to the next 6 months!
