---

date: 2011-09-07
slug: |
  sixth-annual-packt-open-source-awards
tags:
 - english
title: Sixth Annual Packt Open Source Awards
---

\[caption id="" align="alignleft" width="248" caption="Packt
Publishing"\][![Packt
Publishing](http://www.packtpub.com/sites/default/files/packt_logo.png)](http://www.packtpub.com)\[/caption\]

The [2011 Open Source
Awards](http://www.packtpub.com/open-source-awards-home) was launched on
the 1st week of August by [Packt](http://www.packtpub.com/), inviting
people to submit nominations for their **favorite Open Source project**.
Now in its sixth year, the Awards continue in its aim of encouraging,
supporting, recognizing and rewarding all Open Source projects.

The **2010 Open Source Award Winners** included the Open Source
**Content Management System (CMS)** Award winner **CMS Made Simple**,
Open Source **JavaScript Libraries** Award winner **jQuery** and
**Pimcore** the winner of the **Most Promising Open Source Project
Award**.

The 2011 Awards will feature a **prize fund of \$24,000** with several
new categories introduced and the vote of the public becoming more
influential. This year all CMS projects will compete in an even tighter
contest in the Open Source CMS Award category with the now defunct Hall
of Fame CMS finalists re-entered into the CMS category. Projects such as
**Drupal** and **Joomla**! will face off with **CMS Made Simple** and
**MODx** for the first time since 2008.

While the Most Promising Open Source Project and the Open Source
JavaScript Libraries categories will be back for a second year, Packt is
introducing **new categories** for **Open Source Business
Applications**, **Open Source Multimedia Software** and **Open Source
Mobile Toolkit and Libraries**. These new categories will ensure that
the Open Source Awards remain committed to providing the platform to
recognise excellence within the community while supporting Open Source
projects both new and old.

*"We've managed to continue to provide new levels of accessibility for
Open Source projects, while encouraging a more competitive nature in the
contest by increasing the public votes influence. Additionally, we
thought it would be a great idea to reward more projects thus we've
introduced sub-category awards across a number of the categories during
the voting stage. We expect the Awards this year to be bigger and
better."* said **Julian Copes**, organizer of this year's Awards.

Packt has opened up nominations for people to submit their favorite Open
Source projects for each category at
[www.PacktPub.com/open-source-awards-home](http://www.PacktPub.com/open-source-awards-home)
. The top five in each category will go through to the final, which
begins mid-September. For more information on the categories, read
Packt's recent announcement:
[www.packtpub.com/blog/2011-open-source-awards-announcement](http://www.packtpub.com/blog/2011-open-source-awards-announcement)

Having bought books from them before, I'm very happy to support their
initiative and invite the readers to not only participate of this event
but check out their books and EBooks as well!
