---

date: 2012-03-08
slug: |
  red-hat-the-first-3-months
tags:
 - rpath
title: "Red Hat: The First 3 Months"
---

![Picture wearing my Red Hat fedora
hat.](http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7070/6818482688_bea7d638ec_m_d.jpg)This
past Feb. 5th I was greeted early in the morning with the following
email:

> **Congratulations for reaching 90 days of service with Red Hat!**

It is hard for me to believe that it has been 3 months already since I
started this new chapter in my career! My days have been filled with so
many new things that it may explain why it literally feels like it was
only yesterday that I left **rPath** to join the **CloudForms QE Team**
here at **Red Hat**!

I'm still going through the transition period of coming off a startup,
super fast paced environment to a (much, much) bigger company trying to
solve a similar challenge. There is not a single day that goes by that I
don't meet someone new or learn yet a new trick about **YUM** or
**RPM**. Keeping track of names, faces, where they sit and what they do
has been a challenge on its own, but I believe I'm making some progress.
Being the global company that we are, it is not always obvious where the
person you spent the last few hours working on IRC is from...

So for the last 3 months I've been learning all I can absorb about all
the different projects that are being developed here! I feel that I have
learned a lot but there is still a lot to learn, which is awesome! When
I think about the massive talent pool that we have and the caliber and
enthusiasm of my co-workers, plus the magnitude of the challenges ahead
and the impact that our projects will have in the enterprise world, I
can't help but feel that I am at the right place and at the right time!

Can I top this off? Yes, I can! For the first time in my life I can
proudly say that everything that I work on is **not only truly open
sourced** but have a **thriving community of collaborators outside
work**! In other words, anyone from outside Red Hat can see the issues
I've worked on, what's currently assigned to me and even download and
play with the source code of the project!

So these first 90+ days have been a blur of excitement and learning for
me and I'm really excited about the upcoming months and all the good
stuff that is yet to come down the pipe! **It is a great time to be a
Red Hatter!**
