---

date: 2012-10-30
slug: |
  tough-times
tags:
 - english
title: Tough Times
---

These last few days have been rough for my family due to a very
unfortunate event. About 10 weeks ago my wife and I learned that she was
pregnant, something that we both wanted very much since our last child
was born in 2007. So for the last 10 weeks we have been taking all the
necessary steps to prepare our daughters, our house and our work
schedules to welcome another child into our family. We also decided that
we would break the news very slowly at first, making sure to share the
news with immediate family and close friends and planning to tell
everyone else after we had our first ultrasound.

That first ultrasound happened this last Friday, and for the first time
we also had the kids with us in the room so they would be the first ones
to hear their baby sister/brother's heart beat... but we didn't. After 5
minutes of unsuccessful attempts to grab the slightest sound or sign of
a heart beat or even the faintest sign of movement, our doctor
recommended that we try the ultrasound at the local hospital, as they
had a more advanced machine and would be able to give us a more concrete
diagnostic.

So we spent Saturday and Sunday agonizing over what would happen Monday
morning when we were scheduled for the next session... and tried our
best to have as much of a normal life one can have, trying to shield our
children from the anxiety and 1000 horrible thoughts that kept creeping
through our heads.

Yesterday we managed to get someone to watch over our kids and headed
early to UNC Hospital for what we expected would be a life changing
moment. I guess I could write about how we, my wife and I, agonized
every single second until we were finally taken into the ultrasound
room. How we held our breath waiting as the person operating the machine
performed some routine checks and measurements, before she finally
switched to the test we cared the most... and how heart breaking (how
ironic) it was to hear only the silence coming off the heart monitor.

Needless to say we are very much heart broken and still trying to digest
what just happened to us. I believe I am coping a bit better than my
wife, but this feeling that I have things under control comes and goes
in waves. She keeps going over and over what she could possibly have
done differently, or what she may have done to endanger the life of our
unborn child.

Late afternoon yesterday I broke the news to our oldest daughter, and
after the initial shock she seems to have taken the news as well as a
child is expected to take. She has been very supportive and is always
telling her mom how much she loves her. However, I haven't told our
youngest one yet... She's been looking forward to sharing her room with
a new sibling and I don't feel that we're ready to tell her yet... but
that day will most likely be some time this week.

As my wife had what the doctor called a "missed miscarriage", the
10-week-old baby is still inside her and we now have to decide how to
proceed with the removal and disposal of what once was a living human
being. Tough decision to make, I assure you!

Our immediate family has been aware of the situation and has been
extremely supportive, even though they're spread across NY and NJ. Our
pain is still very much fresh and we're still debating what the next
step will be. With Halloween literally around the corner, we will also
have to make sure our kids are not affected by that next step, whatever
it may be.

So I wanted to share a bit of our most intimate news with you all who
follow me and my friends who near or far are very important to us...
