---

date: 2013-03-28
slug: |
  perks-of-being-a-polyglot
tags:
 - university of north carolina
 - unc
 - english
title: Perks of being a polyglot
---

￼

Yesterday I had one of those "once in a a lifetime" opportunities,
thanks to my wife who dragged me to a presentation hosted by the
University of North Carolina. The presentation by Dr. Eduardo Torres
Cuevas, titled "Preserving Cuba's Cultural Heritage in the 21st Century"
attracted a small gathering, apparently mostly made up of UNC staff and
students who are currently enrolled in one of their languages courses. I
wasn't really sure what to expect from it, but being the supportive
husband that I am, I signed off from work a bit earlier and together
with our 2 kids we drove to the main campus.

The entire lecture was done in Spanish while a translator tried her best
to keep up with Dr. Cuevas' detailed and humored style of prose, as he
told us about the history behind Cuba's National Library. I must tell
you, being a "real time" translator is not an easy task, and though Dr.
Cuevas tried to slow things down so she could do her job in a timely
fashion, she still had to summarize a lot of what was being said in
order to keep up with him. Sadly, a lot of the "good stuff" was never
mentioned and/or was completely lost in translation.

Dr. Cuevas was an excellent speaker and was able to quickly put everyone
at ease right away and transport us to the Havana of the 1950s. The
entire lecture lasted approximately 50 minutes but in reality it felt
more like a small fraction of that! I could tell that he is extremely
passionate about preserving the Cuban cultural heritage for posterity,
and together with a strong character and charisma, I dare say that
everyone in attendance was completely captivated by his stories as if in
a trance.

Now, let me remind you of one minor detail I mentioned early on that you
may have overlooked: everything was in Spanish, a language which though
not completely unfamiliar to me, is not my first or second language in
order of fluency (Brazilian Portuguese and English in this order if
you're wondering what my first and second languages are). Sure, there
was a translator, but after the first 3 minutes I completely ignored her
voice and focused completely on Dr. Cuevas. Eventually, the translator's
voice became white noise or just an annoyance, as we would have to stop
the flow of the lecture in order for her to turn beautiful story
telling-style prose to a short. almost. dry. list. of. facts. and.
numbers!

I feel extremely lucky that I was able to not only meet but hear someone
who may be a very important person in the history of Cuba. I also feel
extremely lucky that I was able to follow and understand the entire
presentation in the "original format" without the need for "caption" or
any other aid. Had I relied solely on translations, I would have never
really gotten all the little jokes, nuances and true meaning behind the
words uttered by the gentleman from Havana... and most likely would not
feel this great urge I now feel to make Cuba, and specially the National
Library of Cuba, my choice for the next time I go anywhere outside the
States for vacation!
