---

date: "2014-05-01 18:05:45"
tags:
 - python
 - hiring
title: Hiring is Tough!
---

So I\'ve been trying to hire two python developers to join my automation
team here at [Red Hat](http://www.redhat.com) since last **November,
2013**\... and believe it or not, so far I\'ve had absolutely zero
success in finding good, strong, with real world experience candidates
in North Carolina! I either find really smart people, who do have
relevant backgrounds or could \'hit the ground running\' but are way out
of my current budget, or they lack real world experience and fall into
more of an entry level position.

Basically I\'m looking for someone who not only can \'speak python\'
fluently but also has experience doing automation and writing tests, as
well as that \'QE mindset\' that makes you want to automate all things
and question all things about a product! Someone who knows how to file a
good bug report and knows how to provide pertinent, relevant information
to developers so that they can fix a bug. Finally, someone who believes
in continuous integration and is excited about an opportunity to improve
and augment our existing testing
[framework](https://github.com/omaciel/robottelo) and work with a very
exciting product, knowing that your contributions will affect literally
thousands of customers world wide!

Bonus points if you know what [Selenium](http://docs.seleniumhq.org/) is
and have played with [Paramiko](http://www.lag.net/paramiko/) and/or
[Requests](http://docs.python-requests.org/en/latest/)!!!

Does that interest you? Feel that you got what I\'m looking for? Then
take a peek at these two positions and apply fast!

-   [Associate Quality Engineer
    -Python](http://jobs.redhat.com/jobs/descriptions/associate-quality-engineer-python-raleigh-north-carolina-job-2-4389206)
-   [Quality Engineer - Python and
    Selenium](http://jobs.redhat.com/jobs/descriptions/quality-engineer-python-and-selenium-raleigh-north-carolina-job-2-4209594)
