---

date: "2014-07-12 11:20:00"
tags:
 - translations
 - life
title: The End For Pylyglot
---

# Background

It was around 2005 when I started doing translations for Free and
Open-Source Software. Back then I was warmly welcomed to the Ubuntu
family and quickly learned all there was to know about using their
Rosetta online tool to translate and/or review existing translations for
the Brazilian Portuguese language. I spent so much time doing it, even
during working hours, that eventually I sort of \"made a name for
myself\" and made my way up to the upper layers of the Ubuntu Community
echelon.

Then I \"graduated\" and started doing translations for the upstream
projects, such as GNOME, Xfce, LXDE, and Openbox. I took on more
responsabilities, learned to use Git and make commits for myself as well
as for other contributors, and strived to unify all Brazilian Portuguese
translations across as many different projects as possible. Many
discussions were had, (literally) hundreds of hours were spent going
though also hundreds of thoundands of translations for hundreds of
different applications, none of it bringing me any monetary of financial
advantage, but all done for the simple pleasure of knowing that I was
helping make FOSS applications \"speak\" Brazilian Portuguese.

I certainly learned a lot though the experience of working on these many
projects\... some times I made mistakes, other times I \"fought\" alone
to make sure that standards and procedures were complied with. All in
all, looking back I only have one regret: not being nominated to become
the leader for the Brazilian GNOME translation team.

Having handled 50% of the translations for one of the GNOME releases
(the other 50% was handled by a good friend, Vladimir Melo while the
leader did nothing to help) and spent much time making sure that the
release would go out the door 100% translated, I really thought I\'d be
nominated to become the next leader. Not that I felt that I needed a
\'title\' to show off to other people, but in a way I wanted to feel
that my peers acknowledged my hard work and commitment to the project.

Seeing other people, even people with no previous experience, being
nominated by the current leader to replace him was a slap in the face.
It really hurt me\... but I made sure to be supportive and continue to
work just as hard. I guess you could say that I lived and breathed
translations, my passion not knowing any limits or knowing when to
stop\...

But stop I eventually did, several years ago, when I realized how hard
it was to land a job that would allow me to support my family (back then
I had 2 small kids) and continue to do the thing I cared the most. I
confess that I even went through a series of job interviews for the
translation role that Jono Bacon, Canonical\'s former community manager,
was trying to hire, but in the end things didn\'t work out the way I
wanted. I also flirted with another similar role at MeeGo but since they
wanted me to move to the West Coast I decided not to pursue it (I also
had fallen in love with my then current job).

# Pylyglot

As a way to keep myself somewhat still involved with the translation
communities and at the same time learn a bit more about the Django
framework, I then created [Pylyglot](http://www.pylyglot.org), \"a web
based glossary compedium for Free and Open Source Software translators
heavily inspired on the Open-tran.eu web site\... with the objective to
\'provide a concise, yet comprehensive compilation of a body of
knowledge\' for translators derived from existing Free and Open Source
Software translations.\"

![](/images/pylyglot.png)

I have been running this service on my own and paying for the cost of
domain registration and database costs out of my own pocket for a while
now, and I now find myself facing the dilema of renewing the domain
registration and keep Pylyglot alive for another year\... or retire it
and end once and for all my relationship with FOSS translations.

Having spent the last couple of months thinking about it, I have now
arrived at the conclusion that it is time to let this chapter of my life
rest. Though the US\$140/year that I won\'t be spending won\'t make me
any richer, I don\'t foresee myself either maintaining or spending any
time improving the project. So this July 21st, 2014 Pylyglot will close
its doors and cease to exist in its current form.

To those who knew about Pylyglot and used it and, hopefuly, found it to
be useful, my sincere thanks for using it. To those who supported my
idea and the project itself, whether by submitting code patches,
building the web site or just giving me moral support, thank you!
