---

date: "2014-12-05 10:49:00"
tags:
 - work
 - redhat
 - anniversary
title: Three Years and Counting!
---

Making a quick pit stop to mark this milestone in my professional
career: today is my 3-year anniversary at Red Hat! Time has certainly
flown by and I really cannot believe that it has been three years since
I joined this company.

I know it is sort of cliche to say \"I can not believe that it has been
this long\...\" and so on and so forth, but it is so true. Back then I
joined a relatively new project with very high ambitions, and the first
few months had me swimming way out in the deepest part of the pool,
trying to learn all \'Red Hat-things\' and **Clojure** for the existing
automation framework (now we are fully using **Python**).

I did a lot of swimming for sure, and through the next months, through
many long days and weekends and hard work, tears and sweat (you know,
your typical life for a **Quality Engineer** worth his/her salt), I
succeeded in adding **and** wearing many types of hats, going from a
**Senior Quality Engineer**, to a **Supervisor** of the team, to
eventually becoming the **Manager** for a couple of teams, spread over 4
different countries. Am I bragging? Maaaybe a little bit :) but my point
is really to highlight a major key factor that made this rapid ascension
path possible: Red Hat\'s work philosophy and culture of rewarding those
who work hard and truly embrace the company! Sure, I worked really hard,
but I have worked just as hard before in previous places and gotten
nowhere really fast! Being recognized and rewarded for your hard work is
something new to me, and I owe a great debt of gratitude to those who
took the time to acknowledge my efforts and allowed me room to grow
within this company!

The best part of being a Red Hatter for 3 years? Being surrounded by an
enormous pool of talented, exciting people who not only enjoy what they
do, but are always willing to teach you something new, and/or to drop
what they\'re working on to lend you a helping hand! There is not a
single day that I don\'t learn something new, and thankfully I don\'t
see any sign of this trend stopping :) Have I mentioned that I **love**
my teammates too? What a great bunch of guys!!! Getting up early in the
morning and walking to my home office (yeah, they let me work remotely
too) day in, day out, is never a drag because I just know that there are
new things to learn and new adventures and \'achievements to unlock\'
right around the corner.

**I am Red Hat!!!**
