---

date: "2014-12-31 13:26:00"
tags:
 - books
 - goodreads
title: 2014 in Book Covers
---

For my last post of 2014 I wanted to show, with pictures, the books I
read and spent so much time with this year.

Back in January of 2014 I set out to read 30 books as part of my
[Reading
Challenge](https://www.goodreads.com/challenges/1914-2014-reading-challenge).
I wanted to focus on reading Brazilian authors early on as I felt that I
really needed to learn more about Brazilian literature and this time,
read books for fun and not because I was told to back when I was much
younger.

![](http://c1.staticflickr.com/9/8561/15972365217_fa019a4c47_n.jpg)

I took advantage that **UNC** has a vast books collection with a very
decent section on Brazilian authors and I was able to read some really
awesome books by [Erico
Verissimo](https://www.goodreads.com/author/show/3376364.Erico_Verissimo),
[Joaquim Manuel de
Macedo](https://www.goodreads.com/author/show/191653.Joaquim_Manuel_de_Macedo),
[José de
Alencar](https://www.goodreads.com/author/show/540628.Jos_de_Alencar),
[Jorge Amado](https://www.goodreads.com/author/show/52683.Jorge_Amado)
and [Machado de
Assis](https://www.goodreads.com/author/show/22458.Machado_de_Assis)! I
also fell in love with these authors and the fact that it took me a
couple of decades to truly appreciate them doesn\'t bother me at all,
since I believe that it took me this long to reach the right maturity
level\... in other words, I was not ready for them yet until this year.

![](http://c2.staticflickr.com/8/7536/16132335406_f5bdfa631b_n.jpg)

I also fell in love with [John
Steinbeck](https://www.goodreads.com/author/show/585.John_Steinbeck) and
[Ray Bradbury](https://www.goodreads.com/author/show/1630.Ray_Bradbury),
and I think that [Grapes of
Wrath](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18114322-the-grapes-of-wrath)
and [Dandelion
Wine](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50033.Dandelion_Wine) are two
of the best books I have ever read!

Lastly, 2014 was also the year I started reading short stories (to
sample different authors and see what they \'have to offer\'), and I
highly recommend the short stories of [Flannery
O\'Connor](https://www.goodreads.com/author/show/22694.Flannery_O_Connor),
[John Cheever](https://www.goodreads.com/author/show/7464.John_Cheever),
[Simon Rich](https://www.goodreads.com/author/show/158635.Simon_Rich),
and [Gabriel Garcí­a
Márquez](https://www.goodreads.com/author/show/13450.Gabriel_Garc_a_M_rquez).

![](http://c2.staticflickr.com/8/7526/16132335446_ecd062b9bd_n.jpg)

In 2015 I plan to continue reading more Brazilian authors and exploring
different authors and genres! I may even re-read [The Lord of the
Rings](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33.The_Lord_of_the_Rings)
again. :)
