---
author:
- Og Maciel

date: 2015-12-31
description: |
  Review of 2015
tags:
 - brno
 - czech republic
 - israel
 - 2015
 - manager
 - books
title: End of Year - 2015
---

![Bookshelf](https://omaciel.fedorapeople.org/bookshelf.jpeg)

Another year has gone by and I guess it is time to review the things I
set out to do and grade myself on how well (or poorly) I fared. Here are
some of my goals for 2015:

# Read 70 Books

Grade: **PASS**

Even though I had a very, very busy year at work, with many releases of
**Red Hat Satellite 5** and **Red Hat Satellite 6** shipped to our
customers, I managed to surpass my goal of reading 70 books, finishing
the year with a whopping **79** books read! You can see the books I read
here: [Year in
Books](https://www.goodreads.com/user/year_in_books/2015/12048315)

This year I also spent a good chunk of my time looking at old, used
books, and my personal book collection increased considerably. At one
point I had so many piles of books lying around the house that I had to
buy 4 new book cases to store them. At first I wanted to have them
custom made, but the estimates I got from 3-4 different people were way
out of my budget. In the end I went with 4 [Billy
Bookcases](http://www.ikea.com/us/en/catalog/products/40279788/#/40263848)
from Ikea, which cost me about 10 times less!

If you want to see what I\'m reading or want to recommend a book which
you think I might enjoy reading, please feel free to add me on
[GoodReads](https://www.goodreads.com/omaciel).

# Write a Book

Grade: **FAIL**

I utterly failed my attempt, or better yet, lack of attempt to write a
book. I did have lots of ideas for some short stories, but it was only
around **July** that I started writing them in my notebook. I have
around 3-4 rough drafts put together and I hope that I can transcribe
them from the notebook onto another media, perhaps this blog?

# Travel Abroad

Grade: **PASS**

This year I had the opportunity of doing a bit of traveling, and I
already have a couple of trips planned for the new year!

-   February: I went back to [Brno](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brno)
    in the Czech Republic for work, and attended the very first **QE
    Camp** organized by my employer, **Red Hat**. Even though **British
    Airlines** misplaced my luggage and I had to wear the same clothes
    for 3 days while attending the event (I washed my socks and tidy
    whities every night and hung them to dry overnight). It was pretty
    cold too and I had to make do with a **UNC** sweater I had on me.
    Anyhow, I absolutely **love**
    [Brno](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brno) and it was great that I
    got to work from the office for a few days and hang out with my
    fellow Red Hatters.

    ![Feb](https://photos-4.dropbox.com/t/2/AABWqCX-YXi5QB4nFRGrIbEHiTLkzW5pRppen8aeuMqsxQ/12/102224/jpeg/32x32/3/1451620800/0/2/2015-02-08%2012.38.14.jpg/EMutJxjF6ozdBCACKAI/9f9ZtckqDadXsKolbkor5J16LSIA4jQpHlV8Dk9s6Fo?size_mode=3&size=1024x768)

-   **May**: This time I went to Israel for the first time. It was a
    very long flight and when I finally arrived at [Ben
    Gurion](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ben_Gurion_Airport) airport I
    was very tired. I also could not get my cel phone to work there and
    since the address to my hotel was in an email from work, I had to
    resort to hand gestures and appeal to the good will of others to
    figure out that my [hotel](http://benjamin-hotel.co.il/) was in
    **Herzliya** and not **Tel Aviv** as I kept insisting with the cab
    driver. :) He finally let me use his iPhone to go online and I
    arrived safe and sound.

    I must say that I had a great time in Israel, even with the day long
    meetings we had every single day. This was the first time I spent a
    lot of time with my manager too, and I must say that it was a great
    opportunity to see him performing his job, day in, day out. He is
    very passionate about his job, but he is also very approachable and
    genuinely cares about us, so by the end of the week I felt that the
    trip was worth the long distance and all the meetings. I also gave a
    presentation about [Red Hat Satellite
    6](https://access.redhat.com/products/red-hat-satellite) and talked
    about some of the new features that we were working on.

    ![May](https://photos-6.dropbox.com/t/2/AAB4e0nWWSoPTroflxZ4c-DirAJ1bi0z83tNzG5JIUb7Og/12/102224/jpeg/32x32/3/1451620800/0/2/pavel_og_israel_2015.jpg/EMutJxjF6ozdBCACKAI/KZsuflf14H5ZKHN4hVR1RuSgNNQyhGZcInq4bdyl2_o?size_mode=3&size=1024x768)

    Lastly, I got to meet some of the [The
    Foreman](http://theforeman.org/) developers in person and it is
    always great to be able to meet those folks I spent all year long
    bugging via **IRC** :)

-   July: Another trip to [Brno](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brno),
    this time for a bunch of meetings with my **Red Hat Satellite 5 QE**
    teammates. The weather was fantastic and I even managed to meet with
    some folks whom I had only interacted online and some old friends
    from my **GNOME** days who now work for **Red Hat**. I was given the
    opportunity to manage the [Pulp]{.title-ref} **QE** team (and I\'m
    still looking for experienced **Python** developers in the Czech
    Republic or willing to relocate there!) and once again got to hang
    out with friends, co-workers and do a bit of sightseeing.

    ![July](https://photos-5.dropbox.com/t/2/AADDN3oAIeZ-3SRcIhfiiaBKtNXtsoDcqkSd6AdYUEh0yQ/12/102224/jpeg/32x32/3/1451620800/0/2/2015-07-16%2017.44.48.jpg/EMutJxjF6ozdBCACKAI/8eaPbviOw1vqHDtp3wjDTpjTFVvlmYthCLyXtjdTdrg?size_mode=3&size=1024x768)

-   August: Took some time off from work and took the family to
    [Carolina
    Beach](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carolina_Beach%2C_North_Carolina)
    for a few days. Got a lot reading done and enjoyed a much needed
    rest watching the kids running around on the beach.

    ![Aug](https://photos-4.dropbox.com/t/2/AAC7a4q4B-1VXc0b6aovCtuK9BXoR2D-JaHi1cIrXA-ZXw/12/102224/jpeg/32x32/3/1451620800/0/2/2015-08-01%2015.26.31.jpg/EMutJxjF6ozdBCACKAI/rNRNleyOfijr1kUgPYSBx2t5nZ6DUqE5vgdqQcBPLb4?size_mode=3&size=1024x768)

I also had an opportunity to visit my teammates in
[Pune](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pune), India, but decided that I
had enough traveling for this year and postponed my trip for next year.
:)

# Become a Better Manager

Grade: **In Progress**

Since I officially became a manager (with about 24 people from 5
different timezones reporting directly to me) I realized that I had to
make some changes to my day to day activities in order to be (or attempt
to be) a good manager. Some of them were:

-   Delegate more: stop doing the day to day activities related to
    testing our products and/or related to automating functional tests,
    and focus on coaching folks to do them for me while I focused on
    other activities that required my attention and time. I must say, I
    still struggle with this, but only because I have a very hands on
    approach to work. Luckily for me, I have a great team and lots of
    support from my own manager, so I feel that I\'m moving in the right
    direction.
-   Take classes: this year I took several classes provided by Red Hat
    that were geared toward helping me build strong professional
    relationships with my teammates and other folks across different
    teams. I also learned how to build **\"Win-Win contracts\"**, create
    [SMART](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SMART_criteria) goals and have
    **Crucial Conversations**. Even though most of the material covered
    in these classes were nothing new to me, it was nevertheless a great
    reminder and incentive to start using these techniques at work.
-   Incentive teammates to aim higher: throughout the entire year we
    were faced with many challenges, and I had the opportunity to work
    with many talented folks. It is such a great feeling coming to work
    and knowing that everyone around you is just as passionate (or more)
    about what they do as you are! There are times, however, when folks
    are not always at their best or some times get a bit lost and lose
    focus. As a manager I had the opportunity to lend a helping hand
    within my team and outside to some folks who needed a bit of
    encouragement and validation about their performance. I spend a huge
    chunk of 2015 talking to folks, in person or through video
    conference, listening to their issues and working with them on a
    plan of attack to help them turn things around. I remember very
    clearly the many times I struggled with a particular task or role at
    previous jobs, and how much I wished someone would only listen to me
    and help me through a rough patch, so I dedicate a lot of my time to
    being around and available to everyone around. Sometimes it can take
    several months to tilt the scale to the right direction, but when it
    happens, it is very gratifying to see the positive effect that it
    has on folks lives. This is probably the most gratifying thing about
    being a manager.

I\'m truly excited about the new year that is about to begin and I have
many plans to travel more and spend more time with family, friend and
teammates! The year of 2015 was a blast and I hope you all have
something to be grateful as well. See you all in 2016!!!
