---
author:
- Og Maciel

date: 2017-06-30
description: |
  Part 1 of a series of posts talking about quality engineering.
tags:
 - qa
 - qe
 - quality engineering
 - work
title: Just What Is A Quality Engineer? Part 1
---

![Picture of Batman](/images/batman-is-qe.jpeg)

Whenever I meet someone for the first time, after we get past the
initial niceties typically involved when you meet someone for the first
time, eventually the conversation shifts to work and what one does for a
living. Inevitably I\'m faced with what, at a first glance, may sound
like a simple question and the conversation goes like this:

-   New acquaintance: \"What do you do at Red Hat?\"
-   Me: \"I manage a team of quality engineers for a couple of different
    products.\"
-   New acquaintance: \"Oh, you mean quality assurance, right? QA?\"
-   Me: \"No, quality **engineers**. QE.\"

What usually followed then was a lengthy monologue whereby I spent
usually around ten to fifteen minutes explaining what the difference
between QA and QE is and what, in my opinion, sets these two professions
apart. Now, before I get too deep into this topic, I have to add a
disclaimer here so not to give folks the impression that what I\'m
talking about is backed by any official definition or some type of
professional trade organization! The following are my own definitions
and conclusions, none of which were pulled out of thin air, but backed
by (so far) 10 years of experience working on the field of delivering
quality products. If there are formal definitions out there, and they
match with my own, it is by pure coincidence.

Why the term \'Quality Engineer\' is not well known I\'m not sure, but I
have a hunch that it may be related to something I noticed throughout
the 10 years that I have spent on this field. In my personal experience,
\'quality\' is something that is not always considered as part of the
creation of a new company, product or project. Furthermore, the term
\'quality\' is also not well defined or understood by those involved in
actually attempting to \'get more\' of it.

In my experience, folks usually forget about the word \'quality\',
whatever that may be, happily start planning and developing their new
ideas/products and eventually ship it to their customers. If the
customer complains that something is not working or performing as
advertised or it doesn\'t meet their expectations, no problem. Someone
will convey the feedback back to the developers, a fix will eventually
be provided and off it goes to the customer. Have you ever seen this
before? I have!

Eventually, assuming that the business is doing well and is attracting
more paying customers, it is highly likely that support requests or
requests for new features will increase. After all, who wants to pay for
something that doesn\'t work as expected? Also, who doesn\'t want a new
feature of their own either? Depending on the size of the company and
the number of new requests going into their backlog, I\'d expect that
either one of the following events would then take place:

-   More tasks from the backlog would be added to individual\'s
    \'plates\', or
-   New associates would be hired to handle the volume of tasks

I guess one could also stop accepting new requests for support or new
features, but that would not make your customers happy, would it?

Regardless of the outcome, the influx of new tasks is dealt with and if
things get out of control again, one could always try to get an intern
or distribute tasks more evenly. Now, notice how the word \'quality\'
has not been mentioned yet? It is no accident that to solve an increase
of more work, most often than not the number one solution used is to
throw more resources at it. There\'s even a name for this type of
\'solution\': [The Mythical
Man-Month](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Mythical_Man-Month).

You see, sadly, \'quality\' is something that usually only becomes
important as an afterthought. It is the last piece added to the puzzle
that comprises the machinery of delivering something to an end user. It
is only when enough angry and unsatisfied paying customers make enough
noise about the unreliability or usability of the product that folks
start asking: \"Was this even tested before being put on the market?\"

If the pain being inflicted by customer feedback is sharp enough, a
**Quality Assurance** (QA) team is hastily put together. Most of the
time in my experience, this is a Team of One usually made up of one of
the developers who after being dragged kicking and screaming from his
cubicle, eventually is beat into accepting his new role as a button
pusher, text field filler, testing guy. Issues are then assigned to him
and a general sense of relief is experienced by all. Have you also seen
this before? I have! I\'m 2 for 2 so far!

The idea is that by creating a team of one to sit in the receiving end
of the product release cycle, nothing would get shipped until some level
of \'quality\' is achieved. The fallacy with this statement, however, is
that no matter how agile your team may be, the assurance of the quality
for a product somehow is still part of a [waterfall
model](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Waterfall_model). Wouldn\'t it be
better if problems were caught as early as possible in the process
instead of waiting until the very end? To me that is a no brainer but
somehow the process of testing a product is still relegated to the very
end, usually when the date for the release is just around the corner.

Why is the term **Quality Engineer** not well known then? I feel that
the answer is comprised of several parts:

-   \'Quality\' doesn\'t come into the picture, if ever, until the very
    end of the game;
-   If there is a QA team, nobody outside of that team really knows what
    they do. It has something to do with testing\...
-   Engineering is usually identified with skills related to writing
    code and designing algorithms, usually by a developer and not by QA;

No surprise that quality engineering is something foreign to most!

OK, so what **is** a **Quality Engineer** then? Glad you asked! The
answer to that I shall provide in a subsequent post, as I still need to
cover some more ground and talk about what \'quality\' is, what someone
in QA does and finally what is a QE!

My next article will continue this journey through the land of Quality
and Engineering, and in the meantime, please let me know what you think
about this subject.
